---
title: EU Law Direct Effect Preliminary Ruling Proceedure
---

Designed to ensure uniformity in the interpretation of EU law to make it effective. It would endanger the primacy of EU law if it was uniform, and it would also prevent the effectiveness. They need to apply across the entire EU. It is a decentralized model because national courts may apply EU law directly. Designed so that EU law is interpreted the same by all national courts. 

Cases where EU law is relevant may emerge in national courts. That directive should be interpreted the same across all states, and even though they're transposed they might still require EU interpretation. VDE and HDE might require EU law to become relevant and applicable. Preliminary Ruling Proceedure exists to this end. Uniform appliccation and interpretation of EU law. 

A national court asks questions to the ECJ about how the law in question should apply. The ECJ gives an authoritative interpretation and then if a decision based on this interpretation is valid or invalid. A key point of this, is that it is a process that is a dialogue between a national court and the ECJ. These references come from national courts. The parties cannot ask, it is just the national court. The court is not obliged to refer regardless of what the parties say. 

Private individuals have raised issues of EU law to delay a ruling, and that is why it is just for the courts to decide. Legal certainty and the rule of law is more important and a vital part of the preliminary ruling proceedure. Not every time does a case need to be referred to the ECJ, they have the power but no obligation under 267(2) TFEU and is discretionary. However 267(3) TFEU there is an obligation to refer. Paragraph 3 creates a duty to refer to the ECJ is what creates uniformity. Courts who decision there is no judicial remedy against have a duty to refer. When the issue goes to appeal, or if there is no higher court, then the case must be referred to the ECJ. 

Arbitrartion is not sufficient it must pass through a court. There is an obligation to refer by lower courts in some circumstances. When the issue touches on the validity of EU law, and this comes from the case of FOTO FROST, it was a trade case and there was a decision by the commission that was argued against an EU regulation. The German court could not decide because it was about the hierarchy of EU law and the validity of an EU decision, and they went to the ECJ, and they had to make a reference. Only an EU Court can decide on the validity of EU law. They have an obligation to refer. 

There are three exceptions found by the case law CILFIT. 

1. Where the ECJ has already issued an interpretation or a judgement then they do not have to refer again, just follow the ruling. Act Eclaire.

2. The EU law should be clear and unambigious in a prior ruling. It must be valid to all member states in all language. 

Kobler -> case where the SC in Italy dealt with an EU law issue and they talked about how it was Act Eclaire and therefore did not refer, but they thought that there was a need to refer. This is a violation of EU law, which creates damages to an individual then that individual may go under state liability for damages to the ECJ. 

3. One last exception where the interpretation of EU law was not relevant to the case. CIM case against Italy, where that case reached the Italian SC and they went to the ECJ and the ECJ said it was not relevant to the outcome, so there is no obligation or need to refer even when there is no higher court. 

It is not an appeal mechanism. The ECJ does not review the case from scratch, they just interpret the point of law, and do not go to the facts, they just interpret what the EU law says with reference to the facts. The case is suspended while it is in the ECJ, and then the national court applies the interpretation when it gets that interpretation back. 

Case of Foglia -> If the EU law point is hypothetical then they will not bother. If the EU law point is not relevant to the decision. If the question is not relevant to the law. If the question is too unclear and difficult for the ECJ to interpret. 

The case then bounces back and they have to take the ECJ interpretation, and it also applies retroactively since it merely restates what EU law always was. Indirectly all courts across all MS are bound by any ECJ decision. 

Article 158 EU Withdrawal Agreement may after 8 years after national courts can make references to the ECJ about issues concerning free movement under the WA. 

Exists to ensure EU law is interpreted under Article 19 TFEU. 

EU treaties and theory for how the EU decides on external trade with the rest of the world. EU external relations with the rest of the world. The common commercial policy is one of the areas where the EU has exclusive competence to deal externally on behalf of MS. They have been developed to protect the internal market. 

Common Commercial Policy has developed out of a need to protect the internal market. External trade although there is a common external trade policy. It does not reflect what happens within the EU. It is by the EU with external parties. 

In practice there are a lot of issues that have an internal and external dimension. Is there a new international agreement which would create new standards for both parties, and it has not been dealt with internally then what happens. The content and the purpose of the measure should be looked into by the ECJ but the courts do give a broad interpretation which makes it so the EU decides external trade and not the MS.

In a free trade area, there are zero tariffs between the different countries. Usually zero quotas. However there is a clear difference, in a FTA the countries agree to not have tariffs for each other, it is not the same for third countries. If a third country product it would enter under different circumstances, and it would not be different for a customs union since the same rules for external trade apply. The FTA goods only apply for goods originating in that country. 

Principle of assimilation which can go across all borders. Danckerwolke, goods are imported but they need a certificate of origin and the court said that the goods all have the same laws. Where a good is imported lawfully in one nation then it can freely circulate across the EU with no extra checks. The rules are the same because they come from the Common Commercial Policy. 

The rules are uniform. The Common Commercial Policy is based on uniform principles and uniformity is a key element of the policy. Article 207(1) based on uniformity. The need for uniformity means that there is no need for customs checks within the internal market. So the Common Commercial Policy protects the existence of the free market. 

Uniformity and exclusivity. 171 Case and Article 3 TFEU lay out exclusive competence, where there is the customs union and the common commercial policy, but it was already an area of exclusive competence because that was necessary for the existence of the internal market. 

Originally trade included goods alone. In Opinion 1/94 it was extended to services, and in Nice and Lisbon treaties it extended to include goods, services and commercial aspects of IP as well as FDI. The rest of the internal market, except immigration are included in the common commercial policy. 1/78 any rule related to trade comes into the common commercial policy. 

GSP case is about generalized system of preferences that can allow LEDCs that can export to the EU freely, and development can be an agreement which means that the objectives can go beyond trade. Singapore FTA it was argued that it should not be signed because it's not just trade but since its mostly trade it still applies regardless of the objective. 

The EU also has trade protection instruments. 

Council Qualified Majority Voting. 

When the EU signs an international agreement it resembles the way they do it internally, the commission proposes, they ask for authorization to start negotiation. The council of ministers gives a qualified majority or unanimous authorization. Depending on proceedure for internal rules, they give a set of guidelines to the commission. The commission then go to negotiate. Though the council has the power to. The Council Approves, then the European Parliament gives consent for the trade agreements. 