---
title: EU External Trade
---

EU treaties and theory for how the EU decides on external trade with the rest of the world. EU external relations with the rest of the world. The common commercial policy is one of the areas where the EU has exclusive competence to deal externally on behalf of MS. They have been developed to protect the internal market. 

Common Commercial Policy has developed out of a need to protect the internal market. External trade although there is a common external trade policy. It does not reflect what happens within the EU. It is by the EU with external parties. 

In practice there are a lot of issues that have an internal and external dimension. Is there a new international agreement which would create new standards for both parties, and it has not been dealt with internally then what happens. The content and the purpose of the measure should be looked into by the ECJ but the courts do give a broad interpretation which makes it so the EU decides external trade and not the MS.

In a free trade area, there are zero tariffs between the different countries. Usually zero quotas. However there is a clear difference, in a FTA the countries agree to not have tariffs for each other, it is not the same for third countries. If a third country product it would enter under different circumstances, and it would not be different for a customs union since the same rules for external trade apply. The FTA goods only apply for goods originating in that country. 

Principle of assimilation which can go across all borders. Danckerwolke, goods are imported but they need a certificate of origin and the court said that the goods all have the same laws. Where a good is imported lawfully in one nation then it can freely circulate across the EU with no extra checks. The rules are the same because they come from the Common Commercial Policy. 

The rules are uniform. The Common Commercial Policy is based on uniform principles and uniformity is a key element of the policy. Article 207(1) based on uniformity. The need for uniformity means that there is no need for customs checks within the internal market. So the Common Commercial Policy protects the existence of the free market. 

Uniformity and exclusivity. 171 Case and Article 3 TFEU lay out exclusive competence, where there is the customs union and the common commercial policy, but it was already an area of exclusive competence because that was necessary for the existence of the internal market. 

Originally trade included goods alone. In Opinion 1/94 it was extended to services, and in Nice and Lisbon treaties it extended to include goods, services and commercial aspects of IP as well as FDI. The rest of the internal market, except immigration are included in the common commercial policy. 1/78 any rule related to trade comes into the common commercial policy. 

GSP case is about generalized system of preferences that can allow LEDCs that can export to the EU freely, and development can be an agreement which means that the objectives can go beyond trade. Singapore FTA it was argued that it should not be signed because it's not just trade but since its mostly trade it still applies regardless of the objective. 

The EU also has trade protection instruments. 

Council Qualified Majority Voting. 

When the EU signs an international agreement it resembles the way they do it internally, the commission proposes, they ask for authorization to start negotiation. The council of ministers gives a qualified majority or unanimous authorization. Depending on proceedure for internal rules, they give a set of guidelines to the commission. The commission then go to negotiate. Though the council has the power to. The Council Approves, then the European Parliament gives consent for the trade agreements. 

The EU trade agreements are usually very good. They are not the same but they are pretty good. It is asymmetric, the closer integration between the third country and the EU the deeper the trade agreement would be. 

The internal market exists to eluminate barriers to trade, customs duties and quantitive restrictions, and then internal taxation that amounts to a custom duty, and regulatory requirements which amount to quantitive restrictions. Mutual recognition. 

The EEA is the highest level of integration between a third country and the EU, they follow the principle of homogenuity Article 1 EEA. There is alignment, so they need to adopt all internal market legislation that the EU has. So they must replicate the Four Freedoms. They must align. THere is static and dynamic alignment. Static is at one time, but dynamic, which is what the EEA follows is different. Article 106 EEA. 

Gain almost free access to the EU market. They are rule takers, they do not have any input on the rules which then go on to bind them. They may be consulted but they get no say on the actual rules. They are not necessarily part of the customs union. They can sign their own trade agreements. This necessesitates some customs checks to control the origin of the goods. However if the goods are from somewhere else they are not assimilated and therefore not part of the customs union.

Composite products pose problems for the rules of origin. The highest value element becomes the country of origin. They determine this on the added value either from the materials or from the process. 

There is partial alignment with the single market. This is seen in UKraine, Moldova and Georgia. There is partial mutual recognition. They would have some areas of harmonization. The degree of alignment is not complete. The alignment is more static. They are static, there is mutual recognition so long as there is alignment, there is no benefit without alignment and therefore they need to act to maintain the benefits. There are also customs checks in this area. 

The Customs Union exists with Turkey, it presents some benefits. There is a partial customs union that only exists for certain goods, agricultural only. The EU needs to follow the same rules on imports from third countries. 

FTAs without alignment to the single market. This is a standard free trade agreement. Two countries agree to zero tariffs but remain with their own independent trade policy. They do not align their legislation. However when products are imported to the EU they must conform to EU standards. There are border controls to check origins and standards and type of goods in line with the trade agreements. There is some partial mutual recognition. This is the case in Canada. This is very limited and subject to change. On a product by product basis. 

WTO Based Trade Relations

Common set of rules on trade. Tariffs are allowed under WTO leads. There are bounds on that. 