---
title: EU-UK Trade Relations
---

Withdrawal agreement. First there is the withdrawal agreement and then the trade and co-operation agreement. First Article 50 describes how states withdraw from the EU. When a state withdraws there is no need to have a deal or a withdrawal agreement. Deal/No-Deal Brexit etc. There was a deal in 2020 ultimately. 

The Withdrawal Agreement should provide a framework for the process of withdrawal and issues that arise from that. Those issues there are 4, free movement in particular. How the rights mirror the citizens rights directive and mutual recognition for people who had already used those rights across both countries. 

Technical and Financial Issues related to withdrawal is another part of the Withdrawal Agreement. Then the Ctiizens rights, and issues specific to the MS, in the UK that is Northern Ireland. Unlikely to cover detailed rules on future relationship between the two states. 

There are two main parts in the TCA, provisions for trade in goods, free movement of persons was a red line and so there are rules on that but there is renegotiation on that point. Rules on investment and services and establishment, and this is lesser than it was before. The UK did not want to be in the single market or the customs union. In that framework the issues about free movement of goods were set. 

The TCA provides for an elumination of customs barriers and tariffs to create a valid FTA. No customs duties Article 21. No customs union so there is a need for rules of origin. The 'red tape,' which has increased costs for exporters from the UK to the EU. Look into the rules of origin. Articles 37-68. The UK did not want to be a part of the traditional rules of origin, and there is a bunch of carve outs and issues with the UK. Bespoke rules. They have created barriers to trade in actuality. 

For example EVs the battery is the highest value, and in the WA the UK was considered the rule of origin even if most of the components of value come from elsewhere, particularly the most valuable types. This had a sunset period and this is being negotiated. There are additional costs to demonstrate compliance with rules of origin. There are still trade barriers in spite of the lack of tariffs. 

There is also a rule of cumulation where you can deduct the value of components. If you import apples from the EU, juice them in the UK, and export them back into the EU, they would be considered an EU product and that is allowed. Bilateral cumulation is allowed in the TCA, but triangular cumulation is not allowed. 

The TCA prohibits QRs Article 26 but no more than WTO, and no Cassis de Dijon ratio indistinctly applicable measures. Host country control logic following Article 19. The EU The TCA does not require regulation standards to be aligned. However in practice the UK does follow that. 

Investment and services in the TCA. Investment and not establishment. There is a stricter framework in that. Finaicial services, banks can provide services elsewhere. However in the UK they can only set up in the UK, they need a subsidiary in the EU following EU regulations. Professional qualifications there was mutual recognition before. Following the TCA there was no mutual recognition. 

Governent and enforcement of the TCA follows a partnership council which can make decisions which are binding and recommendations which are non-binding. Article 7 TCA.

Article 5 TCA says that it does not have direct effect and therefore are not enforceable in national courts. The enforcement mechanism is international law, negotiation and inter-state arbitration. No ECJ juresdiction in the UK. 

NI protocol is part of the WA and different from the WA. The WA has direct effect. All of the provisions have direct effect. Belfast and Good Friday Agreement. One of the rules was no hard borders on the island of Ireland. This means that NI is in the EU customs union and there is in effect an Irish sea border. 

For persons there is the common travel area, which has borderless movement of persons in Ireland. 

Borderless trade. Article 4 in principle NI is part of the UK's customs territory, hwoever Article 5 creates an exception which is the rule in practice ultimately. If these goods are considered at risk of moving into the EU then they will be subject to customs checks at the Irish sea. Article 5(1) says that EU customs rules apply to NI. Article 5(2) goods are presumed to be at risk of entering the EU, if they are not subject to further commercial proceessing. If it is designed to be consumed in NI it is also not at risk from entering the EU. Those two exceptions are the only times where it is allowed. When any company wants to ship goods from GB to NI, then they would be presumed to have to go through these compliance checks. 

If a good moves from Dublin to Belfast there are no rules. If a good is imported from Tianjin to Belfast then it must comply with EU customs law if it fails to meet the two exceptions. Where goods go from Liverpool to Belfast they would also need to go through the same process. Goods in NI are not subject to any checks if they're exported. 

Products that are produced in NI need to follow all EU harmonization rules, in a dynamic sense. Treaty rules on free movement of goods apply in NI just as they do in the EU27. Those rules still apply and will apply automatically in NI as in the rest of the EU.

Windsor Framework arose when there was a shortage of drugs in NI. There are three key parts. Goods produced in NI can enter the rest of the UK without any checks. There is a requirement satisfy criteria agreed by EU UK Joint committee to oversee implementation of the agreement. Simplified checks for trusted traders. Also added to the democratic legitimacy requirement where the NI Assembly gets a say in EU rules. They can reject dynamic alignment should they see fit. 