---
title: EU law Cases
---

Article 18 TFEU -> Nondiscrimination only relevant when the issue falls within the perview of union law.

Article 21 TFEU -> Right of free movement established in Maastricht treaty noted to be subject to limitations.

Article 45 TFEU -> Free movement of workers

Article 49 TFEU -> Free ability to provide services in another MS (Applies for self employment).

Article 56 & 57 TFEU -> Establishment clause, applies to seasonal workers or short employment.

ECONOMIC ACTIVITY

MORALITY UNIMPORTANT

SPUC -> Abortion case, morality is irrelevant to the consideration of economic activity. 

Jany -> Prostitution case, reinforces the ration in SPUC.

Josemans -> Dutch cannabis case, morality is unimportant but legality is, illegal work will not be captured by free movement.


MOTIVE UNIMPORTANT

Steymann -> Guy working at a cult compound to provide services was found to be a worker under Article 45, they were renumerated at the direction of another and even though they were not motivated solely by economic activity they were still a worker. Steyman also relevant to renumeration which was found, through pocket money and food and lodgings. 

Lawrie Blum -> Trainee teacher who had to do classroom hours to qualify was captured by Article 45 even though the motive was just to qualify, so long as renumeration and direction by another are accomplished then Article 45 would apply.


ACTIVITY MUST HAVE SOME ECONOMIC VALUE

Bettray -> Drug addict undertaking paid activities as part of their rehabilitation was not a worker because the activities served no economic purpose other than getting him rehabilitated.

Trojani -> Another drug addict case but in this case there was economic activity found even though it was low productivity, the activity itself corresponded to a need. Also relevant for non-worker status, if found not to be a worker then that would constitute an unreasonable burden if relying on state benefits and therefore can be deported. Also relevant in nondiscrimination, highlighted the early approach of the court that equal treatment would be required.


ACTIVITY MUST BE GENUINE AND REAL NOT MARGINAL AND ANCILLARY

Levin -> Working as a chambermaid and even though the income was insufficient to live off of they were still a worker under Article 45, they relied on property income in that case.

Kempf -> This is also true where the supplement is state benefits, they are still a worker as long as they are engaged in economic activity even if the income is too low to survive without state support.

Raulin -> Zero hour contracts case. Left to the national court with advice that the amount of time worked in practice should be crucial in if it is merely ancillary or not.

Deliege -> So long as it's not so small as to be marginal than it would apply even if below subsistence level.


USE OF ARTICLE 18 NON-DISCRIMINATION

Gravier -> French national charged tuition fees in Belgium for being a foreigner. Very difficult to justify the invocation of Union law here but the courts went through Article 128 EEC saying that vocational training lay within the scope of the training, since the university course was deemed vocational then non-discrimination could be used to provide remedy. A bit convoluted but essentially this old treaty said 'this area is union law actually,' and therefore the nondiscrimination article could work because now it's something within union law. 

Cowan -> The British tourist in Paris case. Mugged, tried to claim from the criminal compensation board but this was only avaiable for French Nationals, tried to rely on Article 56 TFEU recieving tourist services however the link was too distant to rely on that argument so instead the court found the prohibition on foreigners claiming from the board a direct breach of Article 18 TFEU. 


APPLICATION OF ARTILCE 21

Baumbast -> German national with Colombian wife living in the UK. He did not work in the UK but instead provided services for German companies in third countries. The regulations required someone having sickness insurance in the host country. They did have it in Germany but not the UK. The court however said that the regulations had to be read in line with Article 21 and in line with principles of proportionality. 


CRD -> CITIZENS RIGHTS DIRECTIVE

Article 7(1)(a) Right of workers to excercicse free movement, based in Articles 45, 49, 56&57. Right of the economically active.

Article 7(1)(b) Qualified Rights of economically inactive others. Requires independent means and full healthcare cover.

Zhu and Chen -> Where parents derive their rights from 7(1)(b) then the child is also bound from that and does not have an article 10 WRD right to education without sufficient means, in this case sufficient means are necessary.

Article 7(1)(c) Qualified Rights of students. Requires independent means and full healthcare cover.

Grzelczyk -> The case where a Polish national was studying in Belgium he had worked for the first three years of his degree but on the forth he ceased working and applied for Minex the Belgian minimum state income program, they sought to deport him as a result. The court said that they should examine if the burden was reasonable or not. If it was reasonable then no deportation and they stated what would later be codified in Article 14(3) that those excercising free movement rights who were not workers would not be deported just for seeking social benefits. Decided prior to the CRD on older regulations.

Article 7(3) Retention of right of residence if was a worker and made unemployed involuntarily during their first year of unemployment worker status only persists for 6 months. Applies to self employed who have to cease economic activity as a result of economic issues (See Florea Gusa)

Article 12 Retention of right of residence in case of death or departure of the citizen they based their rights upon.

Article 12(1) EU citizens can retain their rights in more situations for death or departure

Article 12(2) TCNs have their rights qualified. 

Article 13 Retention of right of residence in case of divorce (See Kuldip Singh) this is narrowly defined. If the spouse leaves prior to divorce then they lose the right to retain. Since their rights are derived and about facilitating the free movement of another. In NA this was also the case in domestic violence where the union citizen left the state that the victim was trying to retain a right of residence within, and were denied from doing so. However in X v. Belgium state this was reversed and the right could be retained where divorce proceedings were pursued in a reasonable time.

Article 13(1) EU Citizens retain the right on divorce. 

Article 13(2) TCN have their rights limited and qualified.

Article 14(3) Expulsion should not be the automatic consequence of an application for social assistance.

Article 14(4)(b) Right of workers to not be deported after involuntary unemployment for a reasonable period of time (around 6 months see Antoniessen) seeking employment and have a genuine chance of being engaged. Right of workers to seek work.

Article 14(4)(c)

Article 16(1) Right of residence (5 years plus) is shortened for those who are permanently incapacitated

Article 16(2) Or close to retirement age

Article 16(4) Right of residence can be lost after two years of absence. 

Article 24(1) Entitled to full equal treatment including social assistence

Article 24(2) May refuse entitlement to those benefits in the first three months 



Workers Rights Directive -> Regulation 492/2011 

Article 7(2) -> Rights afforded to worker citizens of the host nation must be extended to workers from other MS

Article 10 -> Children of migrant WORKERS have rights of equal access to education compared with host country children with an implied right of residence. This right is also able to survive departure or loss of worker status from the person this right is derived from. Comes up in Baumbast. This applies regardless of age or if the child is a dependent of the worker, see Gaal. 

Ibrahim -> Affirms ration in Teixeira.

Teixeira -> The right to education comes without any means or access requirements or burnden on the host state. The right of educational access for children is therefore unconditional. ECJ has still confirmed this to be good law even in light of Dano and Alimanovic. Child's carer is also not subject to any resource requirements. 

Czop -> Article 10 does not apply for self-employed though there is scope for the ECJ to reconsider this in light of Florea Gusa. 

RIGHT OF EQUAL TREATMENT

Fiorini v. SNCF -> Right of nondiscrimination invoked for a migrant worker who wanted concessionary fares on the national rail service. Granted.

RIGHT OF EQUAL TREATMENT FOR THOSE WITH WORKER STATUS OR A RIGHT OF RESIDENCE OTHERWISE

Article 24(1) CRD therefore no discrimination is allowed.

Collins -> Irish jobseeker case. Present in the UK for two weeks and claimed job seekers, court allowed restrictions on the basis of forming a 'genuine link,' with the host country and its labour market. 

Vatsouras -> Benefits cannot be denied from a jobseeker unless they are reasonable. 

Tension between Article 24(1) CRD and Article 18 TFEU nondiscrimination and Article 7(1)(b) and (c) means requirements for residency from other union countries. 

Dano -> Big case. Romanian carer who went to Germany and wanted to not get deported but had to claim social assistence. Argued that allowing her to claim social assistence benefits would defeat the very purpose of the directive. Therefore she could not claim. Evaluated that she was an unreasonable burden on the host state. 

Alimanovic -> Bosnian family who fled during the war, fled to Germany, went to Sweden, acquired nationality in Sweden, then returned to Germany, eldest daughter worked temporary jobs in Germany for 11 months before stopping. Therefore under article 7(3)(c) could only rely on a reasonable amount of time which was 6 months following Antonissen, they were seeking access to social assistence benefits under principle of equal treatment (Article 24 CRD) even though Article 24(2) expressly forbids this. The court went with the stricter interpretation and did not give social assistence benefits. 

CG -> Croatian and Dutch dual national living in NI with partner, gets abused and leaves partner but wishes access to social assistence benefits in NI, argued that she had an Article 18 TFEU right to equal treatment. While she did not have a CRD right of residence, she did have a right of residence being in the UK and part of the pre-settled class. The court referred to Dano saying that Article 18 could not be relied upon and was conditional on a right of residence founded in Union law. Nevertheless the granting of the pre-settled status entitled her to claim on the basis of Article 21(1) TFEU and would be bound by the European charter of fundemental rights which did entitle her to support. Established the Dano and Alimanovic line that Article 18 TFEU could not be relied upon for economically inactive individuals though hinted at the charter being used in cases that are fundemental with real human rights stakes. 

Jobcenter Krefeld -> Father of child but was made unemployed and lost his worker status as a result. He was entitled to equal treatment under Article 7(2) since he was a worker, but it does not answer the question more broadly for carers of children with Article 10 rights. 

Article 126 WA ->

