---
title: EU Law Freedom of Movement
---

There is primary legislation, secondary legislation and the courts interpretation. Most of the Secondary Legislation just reiterates or adds time limits. The first thing in the PQ is to ascertain the status to find the provisions that matter. If they're a worker then they might have Article 45 rights, claim employment, to enter the country, and not be deported. Article 45 doesn't define what a worker is, so there's a caselaw for that. Renumeration and the economic activity. Apply that. Then see if they're a Union Citizen which they likely are, bring in Articles 20 and 21 and 18 of the TEU. The Secondary legislation is also relevant, the Citizens Rights Directive, and the other directive. What group are they, and their family members, and the status of family members. 

Go methodically. 

Then see what they're trying to claim, deportation, benefits, economic inactivity. Who can and can't claim benefits. 

The right for economically active people to enjoy. Social assistence benefits. They vary, what are they asking for, is the economically active applying for benefits after involuntary unemployment. Article 7 CRD right to reside for a time limit while being economically inactive. They might still claim if they are employed but below the salary. Disability or child benefits while economically active. There are other facts and what are they trying to claim. 

Assess the status first. An economically active person can claim easier than economically inactive or jobseeker. 

The court establishes this more broadly. 

Grzzelczyk -> Case where a French National goes to Belgium to Study and works part time but gives up work to focus on studies. Applies for minimum subsistence withihn Belgium denied to students. He argued it was discriminatory because they were trying to deport him because he was no longer self sufficient. The CRD didn't exist. The court said that the only way someone can't claim is if they are an 'unreasonable burden,' if it is temporary then it is a 'reasonable burden,' so he was allowed to claim. 

Test is different. Discrimination is irrelevant. 

A PQ you will need to apply this test first. 

Martinez Sala -> Temporarily out of work, Spanish man living in Germany residence permit expires and child care duties and applies for allowance, allowed to stay since they *were* economically inactive. Therefore the past economic activity gives a remit. 

Dano -> Economically inactive from the moment they entered. Romanian who entered Germany and the sister provided for her. Tried to apply for unemployment benefits but this was refused, she couldn't use Article 45 TFEU, but tried to rely on Article 18, 20 and 21. The court was much stricter and the CRD had been enacted. She was unreasonable because there was temporary economic burden. Therefore unreasonable burden. CRD Group 2 3 months to 5 years, had to be economically inactive or support herself. They are supposed to be treated equally for social assistence. However are they trying to abuse it or not. 

Job seekers.

What is a job seeker? Who knows?

Jobseekers do count as workers for a reasonable time. Must show they're applying and going to interviews and that qualifies them. If they are going beyond a reasonable length of time and are trying to rely on social assistence, they are allowed to be deported. 

Antonissen -> Belgian national moves to the UK to try and find a job, and he commits a drug crime and the UK wants to deport, he argued that he was an Article 45 worker and should be allowed to remain in the UK. This was before Union Citizenship. He hadn't secured a job. The court said yes if they're trying to find a job. Not just full time or part time workers. Job seekers to qualify but it has to be a reasonable amount of time which was defined as 6 months. The burden is for the job seeker to evidence to not deport. 

Codified in Article 14(4)(b) CRD -> Shall not be deported as a work seeker and their family members so long as they show evidence of contionous efforts to find work and can show a genuine chance of being employed. 

GMA -> This test has be reiterated. A Greek national applied to Belgium to apply for a job seeker certificate. They were rejected as they did not show a genuine ability to gain employment. Group 1 3 months you are only allowed to stay without a job for 3 months or show that you can support yourself. Reasonable period is in case law but not set in stone. It is only after the period of residence has lapsed that they need to show proof of genuine chance of employment. 

Article 24(2) CRD Member States are NOT obliged to provide social assistence benefits during that group 1 3 months period. Or stay for a longer period of time without providing evidence of seeking employment AND have a genuine chance of being employed. 

WOrkers cannot claim prior to gaining full worker status after 3 months Article 24(2) CRD but are entitled to employment related benefits and equal treatment Article 14(4)(b) if they can establish a link between employment market. The benefits must relate to getting into the market of the case. 24(2) applies where there are other benefits, it also depends on the MS. 

Collins -> Irish National goes to the UK and immediately applies for job-seekers. UK said no because he was not a habitual resident and not a worker. CJEU said that this guy was a worker based on Antonissen. They should be granted in an equal way to nationals because of non-discrimination as well as allowing access to the MS economic market. 

Vatsouras -> Greek Nationals move to Germany, short term job and low paid, and they lose and apply for job seekers. Germany tries to argue Article 24(2) CRD. Social assistence benefits that aren't to do with employment then they can be denied. However if it is to facilitate or related to the economy of the host MS then the court will ask them to provide those benefits because it is discriminatory. 

Alimanovic -> Swedish woman and her daughter how had worker in Germany briefly before losing their jobs. DId not fall within Article 7(3) CRD because they worked for less than a year. Only allowed to stay for another 6 months. That time period expired and tried to deny benefits. Should be entitled to equal treatment under Article 14(4)(b) BUT not obligated to grant social assistence. 

Economic activity for a good amount of time and then given up or you lose your job, or you're trying to integrate into the market then you probably will be able to. However if it was brief, and lost their jobs and the timing has lapsed of 6 months then they won't be able to. 

WHO IS A WORKER? 

Recieves Renumeration, Engaged in Genuine and Effective Economic Activity (Comes from case of Lawrie-Blum)

Part time workers shown in the cases of (Kempf, Levin), Jobseekers refer to the different cases above. 

Self-employed, no subordinate relationship and they bear the risks. 

Purely internal situations. 

Third Country Nationals with family who are Union Citizens.

Third Country Nationals can move with Union Citizen family members. There is a problem generally EU law is not triggered when there are purely internal situations and there is non cross border movement. It is up to the MS to decide as they wish. 

Saunders -> British National, who was not allowed to challenge decision that meant she could not return to England and Wales for 3 years as a result of criminal decision so went to NI, and Union law DID NOT apply. It was purely an internal matter. 

Gauchard -> French Supermarket National who extended his supermarket and this was illegal tried to claim his rights had been breached but it was purely internal. 

Moser -> Member of a communist party and therefore not able to be able to do a job as a teacher in Germany and this was purely internal. So if it is purely internal then there is no issue. Even if it relates to possibility of future movement.

HOWEVER third country nationals are different. 

Carpenter -> Before CRD, there was cross border movement. Union Citizen travels to provide services in another Member State, and his wife is Fillipino Third Couontry National who takes care of chilldren. CJEU says the wife cannot be deported because otherwise the citizen couldn't provide his services. 

Singh -> Before CRD, British citizen marries Third Country National and reside in Germany, move to the UK to reside there, Third Country National denied access to the UK. UC would not be allowed to use free movement if they knew that the partner would not be allowed to follow them. Therefore an abrogation. 

Zambrano -> Two third country nationals move to Belgium, give birth to two children there and the children gain Belgian nationality by birth. TCNs should not be deported even if children did not yet use their free movement. They may in future and the deportation would deprive use of their EU rights. This was an internal matter. No cross border movement. This case triggered a lot of discussion (YOU CAN READ FURTHER)

Dereci + Iida -> Cases that were very similar to Zambrano. Only father was to be deported not the mother because they were Union Citizens. CJEU denied the request to protect from deportation. 

McCarthy -> Union Citizen who never used Free movement, she wanted TCN to come live with her in the UK, and the Court rejects the right to have the TCN come. Very complex area of law. 

What happens if the Third Country National is not a family member. 

If this comes as reason of death of a Union Citizen. TCN family members only retain right of residence in case of death if you were at least a year prior to the death. Article 12(2) CRD. You need to work or show resources to maintain. 

If this comes by reason of divorce, annulment, termmination of marriage or registered partnership. 

The right can be retained Article 13(2) if Marriage or partnership has lasted 3 years including at leas 1 in the host state or TCN spouse has custody, or there are difficult circumstances like DV. Or right of access to kids in a court. 

Brexit and Free Movement of People in the UK.

Trade and Co-Operation Agreement. Nothing in provisions of that for Free Movement of People. 

The Withdrawal Agreement included Article 11 WA protections for rights of those Union Citizens in the EU. People who did so before the conclusion of Brexit. The Withdrawal Agreement extends those rights to be applied to them still. No deprivation of rights for people who have already moved. Rights however can be lost by prolonged absence. 

Article 10 WA extends to family members who alredy resided before the transition period, are directly related to the Unionn Citizen and resided elsewhere but now wish to live with the citizen. Children born after the TP. People who are covered under Article 12 and 13 of the CRD (Death and divorce Articles) People covered under Article 3(2) CRD, dependents and carers, durable relationship. Definitions modelled on CRD. 

Article 15(3) WA If PR status attained after 5 years following Article 16 CRD, but it can be lost if there was an absence from the MS for 5 years. However otherwise the Article for 5 years still applies. 

If no PR, then the rights can be lost if absent for 6 months, can be absent up to 12 months for reasons of illness or training, Article 16(3) National law can prescribe longer periods of time. UK settlement scheme. That will apply. National legislation only in the UK. France is applying only the WA. 

Article 13 WA right of residence. 

Article 14 WA entry/exit

Article 18 WA residence and settled status with no precondition.

Article 23 WA equal treatment

Article 24-25 WA employment and self employment rights. 

WA has removed some rights. No free movement rights in the rest of the EU. You have to go back to your home country after living in the UK. 

No electoral rights.

Weaker protection from explusion

No right against own Member State

There's a lot of national stuff. 

Article 4(1) WA Direct Effect of WA

Article 4(3-4) Can claim violations in the WA in domestic courts and those interpretations have to be in line with EU law until the end of the transitional period. 

Article 4(5) Not binding case law but can be used for interpretation after the transitional period. 

Article 158(1) Preliminary Ruling references from UK courts to CJEU possible for 8 years after the transitional period. This is still allowed. 

UK set up an independent monitoring authority for Citizens Rights issues. 

What is the person's status? Worker? Job-Seeker? Assess economic activity

What rights are they seeking?

Discrimination?

Justifications?

UK then the WA might apply think about that!

Be methodical!