---
title: Free Movement I
---

Articles 20 and 21 establish Union citizenship and ability to move and rely on.

Article 45(3) TFEU -> Justifications for discrimination, public policy, public health, public security. Also specifies the rights a worker can enjoy, accepting offers of employment, moving freely, subject to any actions of the MS, and a right to remain after having worked.

Article 48 TFEU -> Self employed people, also non-discrimination

Article 49 TFEU -> Non-discrimination on the basis of qualifications

Direct Discrimination -> workers who move to find employment should have equal treatment to nationals of that MS. Direct discrimination is prohibited unless justified by 45(3) and proportionality. 

Indirect Discrimination -> where it may appear to apply equally but it does not actually operate as such and it is discriminatory. It depends on the facts of if you are being discriminated against. Question of fact. 

Groener -> Justified for language promotion to require an art teacher to speak Irish.

Vlassopoulou -> The main principle is that there should be mutual recognition of qualifications however, it will be a question of fact because you may require further study. 

O'Flynn -> The rule making payment by the state for funeral costs conditional on the burial being in the UK. Found that it was indirect discrimination and disproportionate. Restriction of free movement. UK tried to argue extra qualifications like Cassis. 

Bosman -> UEFA football case. Market access ability for the national. Any restriction will be caught. It will apply irrespective of actual discrimination. This was found not to be discriminatory because it applied to all players. However that he cannot access the market then the fees should be abolished. Court finding in that case. Widens things. 

Article 27(2) CRD -> Public security previous convictions only when they are very severe. Present, genuine and sufficiently serious, and no requirement for employers. 

Article 29(1) CRD -> Public health diseases with epidemic effect from the WHO.

Article 29(2) CRD -> Public health diseases occuring after a three month period from the date of arrival shall not be grounds for expulsion. 

Article 18 TFEU -> Discrimination on the basis of nationality will be prohibited

Cowan -> British tourist in Paris case, discrimination invalid Article 18 TFEU.

Baumbast -> Primary legislation needs to be read in conjunction with secondary legislation. 

CRD codifies that people are allowed to move. You are also supposed to have equal treatment. 

ARTICLE 2(2) CRD -> Close family members have a right of entry and residence, applies to spouses including same-sex spouses Coman, and direct descendants. 

ARTICLE 3(2) CRD -> Entry of other family members can be facilitated. 

ARTICLE 6 CRD -> Three months without needing to show anything no questions asked. Equal treatment. But no social assistence or student benefits. 

ARTICLE 7(1)(b) -> Students with sickness insurance and sufficient resources for family. 3 months to 5 years. Restrictions on student loans.

ARTICLE 7(1)(c) -> Others required sufficient resources. 3 months to 5 years. 

ARTICLE 7(3)(a) -> Worker status who becomes economically inactive, still part of A.7(1)(a) and retain the status if it is temporary inability from illness or accident, found by the court. Reasonableness. Worker status retained.

ARTICLE 7(3)(b) -> Involuntary unemployment after more than a year where you retain worker status. You retain for as long as you're trying to find a job. 

ARTICLE 7(3)(c) -> However if you are made unemployed before a year then it is a six month limit. 

ARTILCE 7(3)(d) -> Vocational training in line with previous skills can also retain it.

ARTICLE 16 -> Permanent residence entitled to all rights. 

Article 45 TFEU

Effective and genuine, not marginal and ancillary

Motive/Purpose is irrelevant

Economic quid pro quo

Renumeration principle

Kempf -> Music teacher taught part time and got less than the minimum salary and applied for social assisstence benefits. Income was supplemented by such things. It was still an effective and genuine economic activity. 

Levin -> Part time as a chamber maid, recieves less than the minimum wage, even if it is part time you still qualify as a worker. 

