---
title: EU Law Enforcement Mechanisms
---

How does the EU enforce law? Is it individuals or EU institutions can they act against a Member State to enforce European Law. What happens if the EU passes legislation in an incorrect way also. Supremacy and Direct Effect and how they work. 

We are checking if Member States and EU Institutions are observing the rule of law within the EU. 

Infringement proceedings, with articles 258-260 TFEU, and the EU Commission will notify the MS of a violation. The MS can respond but if they don't then the Commission will take some actions first. Then they will go to court after that. 

Article 259, a MS can complain to the commission to say that another MS has violated EU law. The commission will give a warning, wait for an answer, if no answer then the commission will write an opinion. If the MS responds then the commission will evaluate that in giving an opinion. 

Article 263, 265 and 268, Judicial Review done by an individual against the Institutions. Action in annullment Article 263 TFEU.

At the national level there are domestic courts and that's where you argue that your EU rights have been abridged by domestic courts. They will refer the case if necessary. Articles in the treaties empower the courts to ensure the laws are observed. Article 19 TEU is the basis here. 

Article 19 the Court of Justice of the EU is here to ensure that the law is observed. No enforcement mechanism to compell an MS to pay any fines against them. Argued in Poland that the judiciary was insufficiently independent and overly polticizied. 

Commission v. Poland -> A lot of warning signs and there was a million euro per day fine, Poland did not pay that amount and there is no way to compell them to pay. However Poland did act to rectify some issues. 

Therefore domestic remedies and domestic courts are very important. They choose to send the case to the European Courts of Justice. So now we get to direct effect.

Van Gend en Loos -> Imported a chemical from Germany to the Nehterlands, and the Netherlands put a duty on it. Urea fromaldehyde. So can individuals claim in court that their MS violated their rights. The courts said yes. 

Direct applicability should not be confused with direct effect. 

Ordinary legislative proceedure is to do with direct applicability. It does not need to be transposed into the MS, it is immediately directly applicable. A directive needs to be transposed and therefore it is not directly applicable. 

Direct effect that means that individual union citizens can take that MS to their domestic court that the regulation was violated. The more usual case is when an MS does not enforce a regulation passed by the EU, or they did not transpose in the right time frame, or they transposed incorrectly. So this gives rights to individuals to argue in courts that their rights have been violated. 

Van Gend en Loos part 2 combo -> This is judge made, "The community constitutes a new legal order of international law for the benefit of which the states have limited their sovereign rights, albeit within limited fields, and the subject of which comprise not only the Member States but also their nationals." 

Paragraph 12

New set of laws, their subjects are Member States and individuals. The interpretation needs to be homogenous as well. 

If EU laws are directly effective, then if there is a conflict with national law, what happens?

Costa v. ENEL -> EU law will always prevail in a conflict. Direct Effect and supremacy. The transfer of sovereign powers that they had agreed over. Supremacy without Direct Effect would prevent individuals from being able to enforce them. Direct Effect without supremacy would be pointless as well because the National Law could just manipulate it. 

Supremacy is not in the treaties, but it is in the Lisbon Treaty Declaration 17, which said that Supremacy exists, but this is not legally binding. It is a general principle from the court, they are not codified but they are generally observed.

Costa v. ENEL part 2 combo -> Italian law nationalizing Electricity Providers, if this was something that contravened. The issue was if National Laws can subsequently repudiate EU treaties. The EEC would be 'meaningless,' if there was no direct effect and would make the whole union feel pointless. Variation of interpretation and laws between MS would 'jeopardize,' the point of the treaty. This supremacy exists permanently so long as you are a Member State. 

Internationale Handelsgesellschaft -> Germany was worried about supremacy of EU laws because there was no human rights. The court reiterated that supremacy had to exist. However they did understand Germany's argument that Human Rights should be general principles that are protected. 

Simmenthal II -> Italy charges a check at the border on beef from France, Charge having equivalent effect under Article 30. Should a national court disregard a national law that is in conflict with European Union law. They must be 'set aside,' if incompatible. It was not cancelled but set aside so long as they are in the EU.

Factortame -> UK Merchant Shipping Act 1988, fishing boats where there was a prohibition of Spanish ships setting up business in the UK. The law was 'disapplied,' on the basis of Supremacy of EU law, and an action brought under Direct Effect.

At the top is Treaties. International Agreements Concluded by the EU. Legislative Acts. Delegated Acts. National Laws. That is the layers of the laws with the Treaties at the top and National Laws at the bottom. 

Direct Effect -> The story does not end merely at its establishment. Through different cases this has been refined. 

There are two accounts. Vertical Direct Effect. Individual invokes EU rights against the Member State. There is also Horizontal direct effect, where an individual invokes an EU provision against another individual, natural and legal persons. The answer is yes and no, it depends on the legislation. Treaty provisions and regulations are horizontal. There are alternative ways that individuals might claim their rights through directives. 

Treaties obviously have direct effect. Van Gend, Simmenthal, and Costa are all treaty provisions.

Van Gend en Loos part 3 -> The treaty provision must be clear and that is important. They need to be unconditional treaty provisions as well. Article 45 TFEU you have certain rights because you are a worker for example. Prohibition and no implementation is needed by the domestic courts. These were complicated and so in future cases these criteria were relaxed. 

Defrenne -> Sufficiently clear according to the courts, precise and unconditional. Treaty articles have VDE and HDE as well. Article 157 TFEU which has principles of equal pay between men and women against Belgian law that forced female flight attendants to retire at 40 unlike male coounterparts. That confirmed the HDE if this was a private individual or company. 

Charter of Fundemental Rights also has VDE and some degree of HDE.

Bauer -> Article 31 charter right to pay and annual leave. Cresco Article 21 on the grounds of religion. So it is unclear. If there is no relevant case then this might have HDE, so it would be likely but not certain. We do not know for sure. 

Directly applicable -> Measure passed by the EU that immediately is applicable to the MS. No need to transpose. 

Direct Effect -> Individual is able to claim their rights in a National Court for violations. 

Leonesio -> VDE and HDE are possible if the provisions are sufficiently clear, and preceise and unconditional, in an EU Regulation. Commission v. Italy also. 

Decisions do not apply to all 27 MS, but they are directly applicable to the specific MS or individual. They do have VDE as they are directly addressed to a MS see CARP CASE. 

Decisions to individuals *could* have HDE but this is up to the courts to decide. Similar to the charter. 

Directives which are the most complicated. They are NOT directly applicable, they need to be transposed into national law within a time limit. They have VDE but not HDE in line with the CASE of MARSHALL. 

There are specific grounds as well. They can invoke a directive against an MS if the directive is not impelemented within the time limit CASE of RATTI. Or if they are implemented incorrectly CASE of VNO. The language of the directive must also be precise, clear and unconditional, CASE of VAN DUYN. Vertical application against the state itself VAN DUYN or something from the state. CASE of MARSHALL and CASE of FOSTER. 

Public companies will count as an 'emanation of the state,' Therefore you will be able to invoke it vertically against the state. The MS is found liable.

Van Duyn v. Home Office -> Dutch National was not permitted to enter the UK to work for the Church of Scientology as the government claimed to be harmful for mental health. Principle. WOrkers directive conferred rights that were directly effective. 

Marshall -> Southampton Health Authority dismissal on grounds of age violated the Equal Treatment Directive. There is no HDE from a directive but it is a public body, an emanation and therefore VDE could be enforced and extended against those bodies as well. You have to be subject to the authority of the state and controlled by the state.  

Foster v. British Gas -> It doesn't matter the capacity merely that it is an emanation of the state. 

What does this mean for discrimination? It might lead to differeing rights. 

von Colson -> Indirect Effect/Harmonious Interpretation. Another way to breathe life into HDE for directives. What the individual is arguing that all other MS are being sufficiently protected and they are not because the Directive was not done quite right or the private company was not acting in line with the Directive. 

Mangold -> Granting effects to General Principles of EU law, and these have HDE. 

Wells -> Incidental direct effect, not many cases on it. Maybe something that can be read here. Where the impact was adverse then the individual may be able to claim. Those criteria are super difficult to find. 

