---
title: Body Running
---

The hotel stood tall in the skyline. Raised to be an estate for those with wealth and no noble blood. An arm pushing high into the sky to try and hold the heavens. Ernest stood looking for the person he was purported to meet. He didn’t know who he was to meet. Not in detail. But he knew that he would know him. One of father’s gifts. He had the tattered visa rejection slip in his hand still. The time and place was noted down but nothing else. 

The ease at which he slotted into the grand lobby even in his ill-fitting suit. It was somewhere familiar to him, one of father’s favourite haunts. His hair that had grown too long. His glasses that were stylish but had cracks in the lenses. Lazy. He heard the voice behind him. 

A man in a blue suit approached him. It was cheap, not fitted, and off the rack. A lifetime in private school teaches you how to see such irrelevancies. He tried to recall the face that was behind that bulletproof glass, but no features came to mind. He was tall. Brown hair cut short. An order that was enforced on him. He didn’t have the luxury of letting his hair grow long. He wore a smile. 

“I didn’t think you’d come.” The stranger said. 

“Well, that would be expected yes.” 

“I’m glad you came.”

“I had nothing else to do today so it made the most sense and you mentioned a public place, so you weren’t going to murder me.”

“I could always follow you after this.”

“I could always call for the staff to help.”

“You’re right, they do know him after all.” The overfamiliar stranger gestured towards the bar.

“Not the grill?” 

“Drunk victims are easier to kill.”

“Wouldn’t I be more use alive; you could try holding me for ransom.” 

The stranger smiled at that.

“It’s cheaper. The grill’s a whole meal.”

“I can pay.”

“I’m the one who asked you out.”

“So that’s what this is?” 

“I have a proposal.”

“So it is that.”

“That’s right, I can’t fuck your corpse if we’re not married first. What would God say?” 

The eccentric stranger then started walking of his own accord. Ernest stepped forward. Following behind the taller man. He didn’t have anything better to do. His girlfriend wasn’t home yet. An empty house, no-one to talk to. Except posting online. This was more interesting than that. Get out of your room. 

They sat down across from each other. Two chairs and a small table. It was busy the air filling up with other people’s conversations. They looked nondescript. Just what someone would do if they were planning to do an offence against his person. 

“What do you want?” The stranger asked. 

“I’ll have an espresso martini.”

The stranger nodded as though that was the expected answer. Or was he just taking note of it? Why was he ordering for them in the first place he thought. The stranger said the words whatever lager you have, before switching to a whiskey on the rocks. An understandable, necessary retreat. The waiter asked to see ID. So, he took out his US passport and showed it. To tell the truth he did look young. 

“What’s your name. I don’t think I caught it. You already know mine so.”

“I’m Jackson. Jackson Fullbright.”

“I guess you have to kill me now, I’m a witness.”

“Look, I get the cutesy jokes you’re throwing out, but I do actually have a serious proposal.” 

Ernest tensed up. As though he’d completely misread the room. 

“I should have mentioned actually, I do have a girlfriend, well for the time being anyway, before she heads back.”

“I knew that.”

“Is that public knowledge?”

“If you’re the right person.” 

“Then what kind of proposal do you have for me?”

Jackson leaned over the table and Ernest offered his ear without thinking. It was easier to acquiesce. 

“I want to ransom you.” 

“What?” His voice shook a little with confusion. 

“Now we can get into the particulars but. I want to hold you to ransom, split the money, in 31 days from now.” 

“31 days?” 

“Because that’s how long it takes for them to override the camera footage.” 

“I see.” 

“We’d split it, 30 to you, 70 to me. I mean you have money anyway so.”

“I don’t.” 

“Well, okay how about 40-60, because if it goes wrong, they’re killing me but not you. I guarantee I won’t kill you. Think about it, risks and liabilities.” 

“I have to trust you.”

“You do, but if you don’t then do you have anything else.” 

“45-55.” 

“I could go after someone else. Some other brat; people like you aren’t hard to find.” 

“Few who would agree to such a proposal. One which I am currently mulling over.”

They were interrupted by the waiter who set their drinks down. Cheap single of scotch on ice. Classy. Ernest sipped his drink. Sweet and bitter. It didn’t burn his throat. Only a woman orders a cocktail. 

“42.5-57.5 would that be okay?” 

“Look. I’m going to finish this drink and go home if you continue to debase yourself clinging to every single percentage-point.” 

“45-55.” 

“Well, I suppose you bought me a drink so. We can have it at your 42.5.” 

Jackson put a phone on the table one of these old bricks. 

“I’ll contact you through this. It’s all been set up, but we won’t meet in person for 31 days after this, and never call with this, I’ll call you.”

“You were serious about the cameras.” 

“I wouldn’t come to you if I hadn’t thought it through.” 

Ernest let out a sigh. “I suppose we can proceed but I do want to know more about my captor.”

“Why? This is business.”

“Well, I have to trust you.”

“Trust is a part of business.”

“Aren’t you a little too young to speak like that.”

“There’s no age limit on this stuff.”

“Well, if you were under 10, you’d be able to avoid all criminal liability.”

“It’s 10 here? Isn’t that a bit young.”

“I suppose so.” 

They sat for a minute.

“Why did you want to quit your job?” Ernest asked.

“Nobody gets rich off a lifetime of public service. Besides, I saw you and I saw the opportunity.”

“You mean you saw money.”

“Your dad isn’t unknown. It wasn’t like I had to confirm your identity."

“If you know that much about my family then what makes you think he’ll even pay for me.”

“Business is trust, you said it right? Who would trust a man who let his son get abducted.”

“Plenty of men sell their sons for a profit, he wouldn’t be the first.”

“Your parents. They’re getting a divorce.”

“Which means he’ll be even less willing to part with what he has. He already wrote me out.”

“He wants his daughter.”

“Well. Yes. He does.”

“How would it look to a family court if he sells his son for profit?” 

“She’s old enough that she would make her own choice. So that’s not operant.” 

“Okay. Look. I don’t know that he’d do anything, but I’m not going to kill you so the risk is mostly on me. If it comes down to it I’ll just send you on your way.”

“Why would you risk your job over this?”

“Everyone’s a gambler now, I’m the same.” 

“That’s stupid.” 

“Then go to the police, ruin my life for me.” 

“No.” 

“Good.” 

“Didn’t they tell you that no-one wins if you gamble.”

“Sure. But I’m going to win big.” 

“So, what, you’re going to call me in a few days.”

“You need to prepare, buy some things actually, I’ll tell you if you’re going to buy it with card or cash.” 

“Okay.” 

“I won’t kill you.” 

“So, what, you’re going to hurt me?”

“I need to make it convincing, this is consensual, but we need to appear, improper.”

“We need the appearance of impropriety.” 

“That’s it.” 

“Okay.”

It wasn’t the first time. He’d been hurt. At least there was more of a purpose to it this time. There was another reaction too. One that scared him. He took another sip of his drink. Dissolving his worries in the solvent. A warm blanket. He looked over at the conversation partner, the way he shook after every sip, like the whiskey was hitting him.

“Can’t handle your drink?”

“It’s okay.” 

“You’re lucky you know.”

“Lucky?” 

“You don’t want to let that stuff get its hooks in you.”

“What do you mean?” 

“Never mind. I do have a request though. For when I’m in captivity.” 

“Sure.”

“Make sure you’re stocked with alcohol.”

“Cheap stuff, okay?” 

“Fireball should be fine.”

“Fireball? Aren’t you a bit too old to drink like you’re in college?” 

“That just means you can enjoy it too.” 

“I’m a bona fide graduate.”

“Barely.”

“Sure.” 

“Is that all then?” Ernest said, finishing the last of his drink. 

“I’ll call you.”

“Okay.” 

“Game on?” Jackson held out his hand.

“I’ll do as you say.” Ernest took his hand and shook on it. 

Passing through the great edifice once more. He would take a taxi home, that was the standard, but the journey wasn’t that far to his girlfriend’s apartment, her apartment for the time being. He had dinner to cook, beer to drink. The warm sensation of that cocktail wearing off in a way that made him feel the cold embrace of reality once again. Through drink liberation, through sobriety, pain. 

Four cream-coloured walls. The standard of any modern minimalist apartment design nowadays. It was a mess. Neither of them claimed responsibility for its current state. The pizza boxes stacked by the entrance a lodge of cooking failures. Broken glass still dotted around the floor. It was his fault after all. He was supposed to be working. Not this pathetic lump of meat who can’t even cook right. Can’t even clean right. Can’t even be a son right. Broken into the shape of a person. He dreaded the return more than he used to. 

As he made curry, spicy as always, as she liked, he remembered the strange man today. Man might be a little generous, but his ego wouldn’t let him call a man taller than him a boy either. What a fool. Gambling with years of his life like that.

The pot was boiling, now all that was left was to wait for the potatoes to soften, and to add the roux. He sat on the sofa. Side on. Looking upon his kingdom. Not even his, he was merely a prince. It wouldn’t stay like this forever. Furniture sold, valuations invited, visas stamped. The flotsam of a decaying life that still stood for now at least. Surrounded by ambition that crushed, voices that rose and fell. There was a dent in the wall, where the hammer fell. Once. It was not much a life, but it was his. The phone rang. Not his phone, not the vestigial landline, but the drug dealer phone he had been handed.

“Hello. Ern-.” 

“Don’t say your name.”

“Okay.”

“It’s me.”

“Why aren’t we supposed to say our names, if they’re listening in, then what’s the point of all this?” 

“They can listen in, but we’re only going to be using these for a short time.”

“What?”

“These phones are only good for five times.”

“What about after that?”

“If things go to plan, then we’ll meet in 31 days in the right spot and I’ll kidnap you.”

“So only five calls?” 

“Maybe eight, it’s hard to tell, but I want us to have two weeks of radio silence before we do it.”

“Okay. So, I have to get to know you in 5-8 phone calls?”

“This is just a business arrangement we don’t have to get to know each other. If anything the less we know the better.”

“That’s easy for you to say, you already know me so well.” 

“I get it alright. You want to know me better; you had your chance today but, if you have any questions then, ask them now.”

“You’re young, for an immigration officer.”

“It was this or the army. The rest of my family is military, but I didn’t want to go into the family business. I wanted to go into business but they’re a bunch of do gooders and patriots so that’s why I’m here.”

“You have any siblings.”

“Elder sister, younger brother.”

“They all?”

“My sister is in politics; my brother is going into the marines.” 

“Isn’t this going to hurt them too?”

“Yeah?” Jackson said as if provoked. “Though if it all goes to plan, I’ll be able to make out with the money and without having my cover blown.”

“Your job?” 

“I quit.”

“Your visa?” 

“Oh, my mom’s got a passport here so.” 

“You’re putting a lot on this. I’m telling you, he’s not going to pay for me.”

“Getting cold feet?” 

“No.” 

“Why me?”

“Because you’ve got nothing else to lose.”

Ernest paused, not able to respond.

“I’ll call again tomorrow.” Jackson said.

“Okay.” 

The click clack of the door latch as Tiffany came home. 

"Hey babe. Dinner's ready, just need to serve up."

"Hey."

She nodded, taking a bowl. She looked around at the kitchen. It was a mess. Even with the dishes done. Stray sauces from long eaten meals still lingered to feed whatever bacterial neglect lingered on. She held her tongue. Filled up her bowl.

"How was your day?" 

"Fine. I'm just tired."

"That's good."

"So, how has work been."

"It's been good, I was on a team with that guy. John. He's pretty good you know."

"I see. John again. You had his number right. He's the guy who bought you that game."

"I could always buy you a copy if you wanted to play with us."

Ernest felt sick. 

"That's okay babe. I'm just, I was thinking we could spend some more time together."

"We spend all the weekends together don't we? You don't have anywhere else to be."

"It's just you're always talking about him. I was thinking maybe he could back off from."

"You never let me have friends. You're always so smothering. In this apartment, every day, it's just so full of you."

The dust was made of Ernest's skin. 

"I."

"You never go to school, you never have any friends, you don't even talk to your family. Do you know how many missed calls we get from your mom? I'm just supposed to be everything."

"I love you."

"I love you too." 

Routine words. To retain the shape of a relationship.

"I'm sorry Tiff. I." 

"Look, I know your visa got denied, we can figure something out, but you do need to figure something out, I need a partner, I don't need a pet."

"I get it. I'm sorry."

"I'm going to play games okay." 

With John. The obvious soul crushing implication. All Ernest could do was nod. He watched cooking videos on his computer to try and make something better. Something she'd thank him for. Something to get her interested in him again. Something to avoid the wrongness gnawing at his chest. He fell asleep in his sleeping bag, on the couch. His addition in the field of apartment furniture. 

There was no need for an outing to interrupt his usual routine at home today. Computer, cooking, trying to clean a little. The vacuum broke on him. He wasn’t looking forward to that conversation. If he couldn't mechanize his attempts at cleaning then he would do them with his own sweat. There was a spider in the bathroom a fly long dead caught in the spider's snare. He imagined himself as the fly. Caught in the warm blanket of the web. Living enmeshed in someone else's life. No need to think about the next meal. The sweet blanket of the web around him. The bounds of which he could only know if he struggled. What would be the point in that. Going down easy and into the snare he went. 

A job well done deserved a prize and after spiriting the spider away and out, he took out a can of beer and then another, and another after that. Mind spining delusions about beer sauteed onions to justify his daydrinking habit. He was shunted out of his stupor by the vibration of a phone. 

“Hi.”

“It’s me.”

"Hey J-."

"Stop. Don't say my name."

"Okay." 

"Are you drunk?"

"What, makes you, ask a little question like that. I'm doing great. I'm doing fantastic. I'm doing amazing."

"You're doing what drunk people do, slurring your words."

"Yeah. Okay. And. People can slur their words whenever they want."

"Man."

"What?"

"Nothing, look let's."

"I'm not even drunk, you know."

"What?"

"Well, not that you have much, experience with drunk people." 

"Look, I'll call again tomorrow."

"Wait."

"What?"

"Please. Don't hang up." 

"You have a girlfriend don't you?"

"I."

"You can't do what you need to today."

"I'm sorry. I'm so."

"I'll call again when-."

"I'm not even drunk, you dumb kid."

"Man."

"I can do whatever you need. I'm not some dumb kid."

"You're a rich kid with no fucking money, so you're just a kid, you're not even a kid you grew into a fucking failure. Best schools, all the money, all the care and attention and you-."

"I didn't have care. I didn't. I got. I'm disinherited."

"What a convenient way around it. That's right, you even managed to lose the money you were entitled to."

"Not like you're any better than me, going to find a crypto scheme to bet your salary on, or are you going to find another kid on the street to hold for ransom. At least I know money, I know how not to lose it."

"At least I gamble on something, you just sit there till your dad finds a new son, a new wife, someone to replace you with."

"Then what makes you think that little scheme of yours is going to work."

"I don't know. I think it's going to work."

"Of course I had to get ran-."

"Don't say it."

"Whatever."

"Can I hang up now, or are you going to carry on and act like the little prince you are, kicked out the palace, no attendants to hear you cry."

"I never asked to grow up with that money. I never asked to grow up in that house. I never asked to grow up his son."

"How hard could it have been? Everything you wanted at your hands. At least you had your father around. Until he found a better son."

"You don't know. You don't understand. What it was like. Growing up. His son."

"At least you had a father."

"I wish I never had!"

The silence lingered on. Ernest's pulse rose, the conversation cortisol spewing. 

"I'm sorry J-."

"Don't say it."

"I'm so sorry. I'm sorry." 

The wires went dead. Tears the only remains of the mangled conversation. One argument later, he was outside. Her work was putting on a party which meant he would be dragged along, part of the package deal. The woman he lived with, talking to so many people. Laughing and smiling. It was so foreign. Seeing into the world where he wasn’t. It made him wish for it. 

The balcony was a fantastic place to sample suicide. The feeling of the metal railing as he pressed his hand into it. The sound left behind. The sensation of his hand and the rust. Just one more push. Over the top. All the different ways one could attain death in such a delightful and civilized penthouse apartment. 

Looking up his eyes tried to focus on the skyline stretching out. The skyscrapers like fingers trying to touch the sky. In the grip of a hand of someone else. The confluence of markets and social orders, a hand around his neck. Someone tapped his shoulder. 

“You got a light?” 

Another stray partygoer. 

“I do.” 

He fumbled around for his lighter, before handing it over.

“Woah a zippo.”

“Can I borrow a cigarette perhaps.”

“Sure.” 

The man fumbled around before presenting one to Ernest. He then looked into Ernest’s eyes.

“Do I know you?” 

“I don’t believe so. You might know me by association.” 

“Do you work with a client or something?” 

“My girlfriend works here.” 

“Who’s she?”

“Tiffany.” 

“Oh I'm on her team. I'm John, she does talk about you." Lingering gaze telling Ernest all he needed to know about the contents. How far did it go, did she tell him that he left the apartment dirty? That he was a dropout? That he was incapable. 

"Only good things right." Ernest said with a grin. 

"Yeah." John replied with a slight chuckle. 

"I've heard about you too." Ernest said.

"Yeah? You know sometimes people joke that she's my, work wife."

"I know."

"She's such a woman, that girl, she's smart, she's capable, funny." 

"I know. She's great." Words bleeding from still wounded insecurity.

"We even have the same hobbies."

Where is this man going with this? What is he trying to say? Trying to burn into Ernest's mind his own failings. His list that will only ever grow cataloguing his failures in agonizing detail. Jackson's words too, ringing in his ears. How long had it been since he had even kissed her? Had hugged her. Had joked with her. How long had it been since he saw her smile. He wanted to cry. Drowning the tears in nicotine, the cigarette singing as he took a long drag. 

"Nice party." Ernest said. Breathing out. 

"Yeah, I should get back to it, us in the working world you know."

"Networking."

"Yeah."

"Have fun."

John gave a laugh and a smile, and a wave, snuffing out his cigarette butt. "I won't." 

The smoke hung in the air for a moment, before the interloper left him alone again. Once again Ernest’s hands went on the railing. White by the pressure. He couldn’t do it. Another day where the limbic system won out. It wasn’t surprising. He was always a pussy. Something else would have to do, to mollify that fatal edge. If he wasn't careful he was going to manage to get his kidnapper to hate him. Everyone hated him in the end. 

Passing through the door again Tiffany confronted him. Her hair and makeup wearing the kinds of signs he would rather ignore. He was always a coward. That’s why this was happening in the first place. If he were better he’d at least have the decency. He can’t even kill himself, but maybe Jackson would. That voice beyond the phone, whisking him away. No more parties, no more girlfriend. No more of any of it. Death to the normal life. Making up for his own failure to end his normal life.

“You reek of booze and cigarettes.” 

“Your makeup looks lovely darling.” 

They were just the perfect couple after all.

“You’re embarrassing me.”

“I love you.”

She looked at him. Eyes filled with the kind of anger you wouldn’t reserve for your worst enemy. 

“We should get back before you start throwing up.”

“I’ll be fine.”

“Yeah sure, that and the vacuum.”

“Well.”

“We’re going home. It’s your fault. I was so close to talking to the boss, we were thinking of sponsoring you individually with your own work visa but.”

The words fell from her breath. Her foot moved in a small side to side motion to show her discomfort. 

“I’ll be okay, you can go without me.” 

“Look just stay out on the balcony, don’t drink anymore and maybe we can figure something out.”

“Do you want to figure something out?”

“If you were working then. Or if you went back to school.”

“You could barely even talk to me yesterday.”

“It’s hard being around you all day every day, you do nothing, I can’t tell you about work, ever, you’re always so bound up in yourself.”

“I’m a terrible person.”

“I never said that. You’re just. A lot.”

“I know.”

“Look, just go out to the balcony. It’ll be over soon, and I’ll pick you up.”

A normal life out of that web. Or was it just webs all the way down. At least he didn’t have to move where he was. Endless days stretched out one after another filled to the brim with meaninglessness. He could be different. Short hair. Happy girlfriend. Solid job. No, he couldn’t. He could never be like that. He already had another drink in his hand. 

Blacking out was another fantastic way to sample suicide. A gap in consciousness. Where the sediment on the bottom of your brain takes full charge. You are not there. You cannot even be found in your own head. What a fantastic place to be. Nowhere. Nothing. No more. 

Head down. In the bathroom. Foetal position. Locked in. Wet floor. This was where he belonged. Dysfunctional and broken. A bottom feeder living off of someone else’s paycheque. His body jerking into action again. There was only sickly green bile. The last place they would ever kiss. Their fluids only able to mix in a toilet bowl now. The poetry of a high school bathroom. The only place they could be together.

He woke up stuffed in the shower fully clothed sitting upright. Left in the corner like trash someone had forgotten to pick up. It was time to think about taking it out. Finding a bin man to do the deed. 

“It’s me. Are you sober.”

“Yeah.”

“Good.” 

“I’m hungover.”

“There are some things you need to do, you'll remember to do them.”

“So, what would you have me do.”

“I need you to take out some cash, buy some clothes, there’s going to be a few different things.”

“Cash. Right.”

“You need to buy some nondescript clothes, t-shirts, tracksuit bottoms, hoodies, something that’ll look normal enough.” 

“Why can’t I use what I have.”

“Do you have clothes like that.”

“Well, no.”

“You need to look like everyone else when I come get you, and you need to leave your wardrobe intact. It just buys a little more time.” 

“You really do have this all planned out.”

“Impressed?”

“A little. It certainly builds trust.”

“All you have to do is what I tell you, and it’ll turn out right.”

“I think I can do that.”

“Good. You should also buy some girl clothes.”

“Why would I buy women’s clothes?”

“They’re looking for a man right.”

“But, you said inconspicuous.” 

“I did.”

“I’ll stand out if I’m a man in girl’s clothes.”

“If you keep up shaving, you’ll look just like any other girl.” 

“No, I won’t.”

“You’re short, your hair is longer than you’d expect for a guy. Considering the resolution of the cameras we’ll be dealing with it would be a perfect way for you to go undetected.”

“Well, that aside, I don’t even know anything about girl’s fashion.”

“It doesn’t have to be anything fancy.”

“Well. I’ll think about it.”

“That’s good.” 

“Anyway, is there anything else we need to prepare.”

“It should go without saying but, don’t say that you’re buying clothes to anyone, don’t wear them around the house, and make sure they’re hidden somewhere.”

“Well that makes sense, anything else?” 

“You better be serious.”

“What?” 

“I saw your girlfriend’s company was trying to arrange another way out for you.”

“I thought you said you quit.”

“This is my notice period dumbass. Haven’t you ever quit a job?”

“Well, I’ve never quit through official channels.”

“What am I saying, fucking rich kids.”

“I’m surprised she went through with it.”

“It got filed this morning. Maybe we’ll meet again soon.” 

“Don’t you have to recuse yourself second time around?”

“That’s the policy.” 

“Either way if things go to plan, I won’t be able to make it.”

“If things go good you might be back in time to make it. I don’t really care what happens to you after I have my money.”

“Well. That makes sense.” 

“Get the clothing done. I’ll have more instructions for you next week.” 

“So, nothing until then?” 

“Going to miss me?”

“Well.”

The line went dead.

Blackened fish and potato wedges. That was her favourite meal. That was what he was making today. It was written in the script. Every sitcom. The main couple, the husband does something wrong, then makes the right food and then the kiss and make up. It was textbook. Everyone had to eat at some point. If she was going to condition her love, then he just had to meet the conditions. Tick the right boxes, and there would be an approval stamp on him. It was that simple. Sitting around the table, moving in the relationship ritual that had been broadcast so many times. 

“I heard you were going through with the visa.”

“How’d you hear about it.”

“It’s tied to my passport, so I saw.”

“Right, that makes sense.” 

“I’m sorry about yesterday.”

“You managed not to throw up in there, so you know.”

Barely a passing grade. He wasn’t used to anything that low.

“That’s good.”

“I think the boss feels pity for you, you know, seeing the press tearing through your family in public.”

“You weren’t pushing for it?”

Immediately he regretted the question.

“You’ll be working under me so.”

“Right.”

She never told him what she thought of the food, but he knew how to tell. How to invent words of praise coming from her mouth, conveyed by the way her fork moved. That was the relationship they had always had. He wasn’t the kind of person who praise was made for. He washed up, she went to play retro games in the office, and he retired to the sofa. He would not rise again until after the weekend had passed.

“It’s me.” 

“I did what you told me.”

“Good work.” 

It felt so poisonously good to hear those words. Not having to read them into someone. 

“Well, it’s what you told me to do so.”

“You did good. Anyway, time for the next thing.”

“Right.” 

“I want you to book tickets somewhere for yourself.”

“Like on a train?”

“Plane, with return. Some holiday place.” 

“Card or cash.”

“How are you going to pay for a plane ticket with cash?”

“Oh right.” 

“Just pick somewhere sunny and buy a return ticket.”

“What about hotels.”

“Are you planning a getaway?”

“Well, aren’t we planning a getaway of sorts?” 

Jackson laughed a little on the other side of the phone. “A full-service holiday, with all manner of relaxation, I do hope it will be to your standards.” Dragging out the full service. 

“So, I buy that and then?” 

“You want to buy it for the date that you’re going on your actual getaway.” 

“Should I put a red heart on my calendar.”

“That’s a bad idea.”

“It would be admissible as evidence.”

“Yeah. Though I guess you could note it down as the day of your other getaway.”

“I don’t have a paper calendar.”

“Really? You seem like the type.” 

“What’s that mean?”

“You were right at home with all those old guys back at the hotel.” 

“What does that mean?”

“You just seemed not that different from them.”

“Well, it’s just a familiar spot, my dad loves it there.” 

“Isn’t it a spot for old men, don’t you go out to pubs?”

“Who would I go out with?” Said like it was the most natural thing in the world.

The words hung on the line for a moment. Ernest didn’t know if it had been cut.

“Anyway. I need you to book that plane ticket.”

“You been on holiday anywhere?”

“I’ve not had the time.”

“I see.”

“I’ll call again next week.”

The words ‘I’ll look forward to it,’ bubble to the front of Ernest’s mind. He stifled them. “Sounds good.” 

The line went dead. 

Behind a computer screen he looked at an array of plane options. He didn’t want to spend much money on a trip if he dipped too low it brought him to the brink of having to call his parents cap in hand. Conversations that could print money at the cost of breaking his skull open like an egg and spreading his brain matter to grease the notes. It was better to have a line of credit than not. 

Glossy catalogues of the standard lad holiday destinations. Sunny beaches and hot bitches advertised in packaged deals. Sex sells. An iron rod of discomfort lodging in him, as he considered himself one of those men who would book a holiday like this. A creature that he wished to see himself wholly and qualitatively different from. The way they looked with butcher’s knives in their eyes. It’s all consumption all the same. Consume it with your mouth, with your dick. Sex sells. Ernest wanted to vomit.

It was booked, and ticketed. Just needed to check in the day of. Getting on that metal tube filled with teenage boys trying to prove themselves. Gladiatorial in the most pathetic possible way. Drinking and being loud on a cheap flight. Never had a flight he wanted to miss more. 

The door clacked open and Tiffany burned by a long day’s work settled in for whatever slop Ernest had cobbled together. Consumption and nourishment. A dependency on each other, undermined by every restaurant for ten miles. There was nothing for him here.

“I think, my dad wants me to go on a trip in a few weeks.”

“You’re talking to him again?” 

His heart bulged at the mention, burning and surging, with the cortisol conductor spilling poison into his bloodstream. 

“He reached out to me. I heard him out.”

“No, no I think it’s good that you actually started talking to him.”

He could feel the mask he wore around that man tightening, the straps around him. That’s what he needed here. The same tool for the same task. They’re not talking to him anymore. He’s gone. 

“I just wanted to hear him out, but it looks like I’ll be going somewhere sunny for a couple weeks.”

“Sounds good. Text me, okay?” 

“I will.” 

Mission accomplished. Form stamped and visa approved. His girlfriend complicit in the course of dealings involved in a crime. Or rather a piece of evidence placed to give effect to the strategy they had devised. Massaged and managed with the right lies. He would find his way to hold the world to ransom. 

“It’s me.”

“I did what you said, flight all booked, I told her about it too.”

“Good job.”

“Thank you.” The corner of his mouth spasming into smile, fumbling the word. 

“There’s not much left after this, this will be the last call you’ll hear from me, before the day. Which airport are you flying out of?”

“The outer city one.”

“From there you’re going to check in and drop your baggage at the airport, without passing through security.” Jackson’s words as orders setting the laws of the world.

“Isn’t that going to delay the flight?”

“No. They just won’t put it on the flight, they’re going to open it up but they’re not going to blow it up, they make a lot of that but really they’re going to just assume you missed the flight.”

“Sounds good. What do I do then.”

“Change into one of the outfits you bought. From here on out you’re going to use basic supermarket bags as the only bags you carry. Be mindful of cameras, take multiple from different places. Shed them periodically when out of camera shot.” 

“When are you going to get involved in this.”

“It’s going to be a walk in the park.”

“So, we’re meeting in a park?” 

“Nice and far away from any cameras. You’ll change outfits again and then we’ll head out to the safehouse.” 

“Which park” 

“Leave the place, walk north for about an hour, there’s a cemetery right there. I’ll be waiting.”

“I can do that.”

“It’s a date then.”

“A date at a cemetery?”

“You can have a date anywhere.”

“That’s true.” Ernest thought about mentioning Mary Shelly. That was probably a bit weird. 

“You need to destroy the phone, destroy the clothing receipts, get some plastic grocery store bags, pack a bag, check in. Wait, what time is your flight.”

“11:30am.” 

“Okay. I’ll pick you up at 13:00 in the graveyard. You’ll know me.”

“I’ll see you there.”

The line was already dead before he could finish saying what he had to say. 

The phone was disposed of by hitting the sim with a hammer enough times to turn it to dust, then flushing it down the toilet. Toilet paper only sign ignored. As for the rest of it. He thought about throwing it from the shore into the river, but he realized that if he tried, he’d fall short. Opting to drop it from the bridge and seeing the water carry away the last connection he had with the man who would hold him for ransom. He could wave it all off. Not go catch his kidnapping. It was the rational thing to do. He could live his life. 

The check in procedure was completed online and with perfect time. Bag was packed and girlfriend mollified. The train trundled on. He was anxious for a flight he didn’t even have to catch. Setting off five hours early. 17 cameras he counted in the departures. Eyes starring above from on high, animated by the ghost of a thousand torched souls a thousand miles away. A specture of terrorism behind every ticket sold. 

The clothes felt wrong. Too casual, too comfortable, too nondescript. They weren’t his. They still belonged to the store. Hanging around him all wrong. He had arrived an hour before check-in for his flight even started. The paper trail would begin in short. In a few weeks detectives would be going through the baggage record trying to find whatever had befallen him. Trying to find a scrap of information. Not knowing that the person they wanted to save was already a sleeper cell for the enemy. 

The step from the check in desk to the terminal exit was the first break from the ordinary procedure of life. The first real break. Taking sketchy phone calls was too minor, and even the various steps made were ordinary in their execution, for the most part. Each step taking him further from ordinary. First, he could brush it off as missing his flight. He left the bag receipt in the terminal hall. Standard litter. The detritus of the security line. 
As he got closer to the cemetery the cameras counted down fewer and fewer. He had worn his hood up, mask on. Painstaking step after painstaking step to make the case as confusing as possible. 

He imagined his father’s face. His confusion. His denial. His anger. The way his voice would raise, his fist would fall. How the man would destress, finding a place to put his hands. To leave his marks. Who would it be, now that Ernest was otherwise disposed. He thought about some secretary walking in announcing the news mid contract negotiation. Nothing like family tragedy to undermine a negotiation competition. Knowing him he would play it for sympathy. It was a good call. Turning tragedy into gain. Stocks and shares jumping up and down. Someone’s livelihood would be ruined but not his. Bottom feeders the both of them. 

The gates lay just a little further now. His calves burned. It was more activity than he had put his body through in a long while. Not to mention the twist in his ankle. It was not noticeable to anyone but him. Defective nerve spraying spurrious singals into his brain. 

The cemetery was overgrown and unmaintained. How long had those carved names gone unread. How long before we too will be gone and forgotten. It won't matter. Brain meat turned to dust. How many decades would seperate their fates. How many minutes, hours, days, seconds. Meaning stripped. Synapses unable to carry consciousnessness. Tendons turned to nothing. Only the calcium imprint, in a wooden box. Stripped of all meaning. Only rocks returned to the soil. 

Jackson was stood propping himself up on a headstone. He was wearing a dress shirt and black pants. Something altogether more official than what he was wearing. The boy stood up and waved, as he lay eyes on Ernest's shrouded figure. 

"You came didn't you. A bit behind schedule but." 

"Sorry to make you worried." 

"I wasn't worried."

Ernest noticed Jackson's backpack, green, military surplus and huge. A gift from his family perhaps. He wanted to ask about the accessory but invesitaging something so ancillary seemed outside of the scope of today. He had a silver casio on his wrist with the clock facing inwards. For someone who had preached the gospel of nondescript, he did not appear to practice what he preached. 

"Where to now."

"You need to get changed. That outfit is already burnt."

"I have the other clothes too."

"It would probably be safest if you dressed in girl clothes." 

"Wait you mean getting changed here, now? Where's the changing room."

"I can turn my back if it makes you feel better."

"Maybe that would be best."

"Afraid you'll have to explain something to your girlfriend?"

"Well kidnapping gives an easy out doesn't it?"

"Is that the reason?"

"I'll get dressed."

A skirt, the shroud of femininity. Other than that there was very little that really marked it as female or so he thought. The pink t-shirt clung around his body. Were clothes supposed to be so tight. That was the grace of a woman. Letting fabric hold you close, so other people can imagine your body.

"You can turn around." Ernest said, finished changing. 

"Not bad." 

"Well there's not much." Ernest pulled at the chest. 

"I'm sure you'll grow into it." 

"Well there are mechanisms for that."

"Maybe you're just a late bloomer." 

"What now?" 

"Don't worry your little head about it. If you know where we're going then when you get ransomed back they'll know how to find me."

"I already know your name." 

"Okay. I guess."

"I could go to the police right now."

"Not like you'd have a case."

"Offences against the person act, section 39, assault. Fraud Act 2006, section 2, Fraud by misrepresentation." 

"I forgot you specialized in that."

"I dropped out." 

"Why?"

"It's a long story." He played a little with his hair. Let down rather than tied back.

Jackson put an arm around which made Ernest flinch "You'll have time to tell it, even if things go well it'll be two weeks. I heard the broad strokes but."

"Is this necessary." 

"I thought it would help with the mood." 

"You're stalling." 

What if this had all been arranged by his dad, some kind of test to find out if he was ready to be written back in. Jackson was just some agent of his. This was all some strange manipulation.

"I'm stalling a little. I shouldn't we do actually need to get going."

"Where are we going?"

"I don't know specifically."

"What?"

"Staying in one place is risky." 

"So. Wait. What. Where are we?"

"Don't worry. I have somewhere for tonight. There's a house being listed for sale. It's unlikely they'll have anyone come around after hours." 

"And after?"

"That's after's concern. We have to stay mobile."

"So, should we move then?"

"It's about two hour's walk."

"Can't we take a train?"

"No public transport. It's risky. If we get a bit further away then we can."

"Lead the way."

"Of course my lady."

Both alive, they left the cemetery behind. Passing from one world to the next. Ernest was a dutiful boyfriend, out of education and out of work through various circumstances. An heir, now disinherited to a man he was distant from. Jackson, a stern immigration officer, with a clear record and years of public service ahead of them. Those futures had of this moment been postponed by the dance they were about to undertake. Jackson took the clothes from the bag and put it in his own backpack. 

Fields turned into row houses. The roar of engines faded. Two hours and seven miles behind them they came to the street. The absence of an establish proprieter signalled by the sign of an estate agent outside. The auspice that gave the two of them the confidence to occupy the place. 

"How are we going to." Ernest asked.

"First rule of breaking and entering, don't break more than the minimal required. Exploit all vulnerabilities to that end."

Jackson felt around, looked under flowerpots to find any kind of spare key. Dismayed but undetered he opened the backpack and took out a lockpicking set. His hands set to work teasing the door apart. Finding a way to bend the world to his will. Ripping his way between the normal function of the door, and the function that worked for him. It yielded after a few minutes. So lazy to leave just one lock, locked. The fragility of a lock, like the distance between skin, bone and brain. Normal and abnormal. A few milimeters the only line for that deep distinction. He held the door open like a gentleman welcoming a girl home. That was how the scene would appear after all.

"Welcome home."

Home huh. Had he ever had a place that felt like home. Somewhere that was his place. Where he belonged. Four walls that were natural for him to inhabit. He was welcome to. Without reservation, and any other consideration. A place to be. 

"I'm home." 

"Now's as good a time as any to go over the house rules."

"House rules?"

"First, you do as I say when I say without any reservation if we're in a difficult situation. There's no time for arguing. You can bring it up later but there's a time and a place."

"Sounds reasonable."

"Second, we don't take anything that will be missed, wherever we stay. We will need to take some things. Cash, where we can. We might have to do laundry. We leave nothing. Anything we leave, we burn."

"That makes sense too."

"Third, I make any final decisions for where we go next, what we do next. You can voice your opinion but we need to establish that."

"I've come this far already. Besides, you're the one bearing liability for this scheme."

"If I tell them that you consented to this then that could be a defense."

"It would be. If you could prove it."

Jackson closed the distance between them, speaking into Ernest's ear. "Sure, but that just incentivizes me to make sure you wouldn't be able to blame me." 

"I thought you said you weren't going to kill me."

"I'm not. You don't need to be dead, to not talk." 

Then he pulled back with a smile. 

"Let's get comfortable." Jackson said, chipper attitude returning. "This is only our home tonight."

"If you think about it, this house is wasteland."

"What do you mean."

"We learned about it, in class I mean, this philosopher, anything that wasn't used was waste. In a sense this house is currently waste, sitting unoccupied."

"That's true. I'm going to have a look around. See if there's anything we can use. Rest here." He gestured to a nearby sofa. 

Laying down as instructed Ernest surveyed the room dissolving into himself. The pristine, standard and unused furniture, placed as envisaged by the interior designer. Measured out to entice the unsuspecting upwardly mobile couple into paying an extra five grand on their reasonably priced home. Free from the knowledge that their house had ever been occupied by the pair doing so. Would a house used in the course of a crime affect the value, it would make sense to lower it, but if it was famous enough it would raise it. At least among a certain clientele. 

This ransom too another manifestation of economic value. Every single action could be turned into money. Living, dying, it's all the same transaction. Overreaching is the process where anyone with an interest in a property in equity, has their interest transferred into money against the titleholder who recieves the funds of sale, in selling to two people or a trust. Every single feeling, piece of meat, every synapse, every scar, turned to money by the economy's overreaching. He was overreached by the interests of the rest of the family. A postponed interest.

Jackson interrupted the meditation coming from the back of the house, a newly built extension. 

"I didn't find anything good, but." Jackson held out his hand. "Here." He tossed a packet of malboro reds. 

"You smoke?"

"Not yet, do you?"

"From time to time. I don't ever get addicted to nicotine you know."

"I thought everyone who smoked gets addicted?"

"You really are a kid sometimes huh." 

Ernest picked up the packet. They had been his favorite.

"Wait I left my lighter at home." Ernest began to pat himself down reflexively. 

Jackson froze for a moment.

"You did leave your phone at home right."

"Yeah, I know to do at least that much, but you can check if you want my clothes are." 

His hands were already in the backpack, he emptied the contents, shaking it hard and fast. The innards arranged as Jacskon scrambled through it, thumbling around. His movements were random. He didn't even remember which clothes were the correct ones. In the chaos there was a silver glint of teeth in the mouth of a wild animal, it was a revolver. Firearms Act Section .5 Unlawfull possession of a firearm, possibly with intent Ernest kept note. The sight of a gun in the flesh. It was uncommon for those at the towering heights to be acquainted with the means their power was maintained. A flash of silver in the hands of a thug. Ernest's heart sank. Before moving on to look at the other articles. 

The rest of Jackson's possessions were a few silver pouches, MREs, fitting for his campaign on normalcy, lighter fluid and a long lighter along with a bottle of fireball. Jackson was so sweet to remember his one request. 

"Which pants were the ones you used?" Jackson's logical mind catching up with his body. "You know it doesn't really matter, this would be a complication if they traced us here. I could probably clear our prints from here, we'd have to burn it down but it wouldn't be impossible, we'd just have to walk a good way from here. On foot. Till we get somewhere less hot." 

"The black addidas trackies." Jackson jumped on them. "Anyway, we could just wave off, start the process again."

"You're sure you left it at home." 

"I did, would you want to risk calling the number?"

"No." He looked over at Ernest then his body followed hands tracing over him. 

Ernest again flinched. Compelled by past pain to resist. 

"Can you. This doesn't even have pockets." 

Jackson's hands then dutifully found them. Two pockets. Empty. At this point they were entangled in each other. Jackson stood behind Ernest, hands reaching through the thin pocket fabric onto Ernest's thighs. 

"What are you doing?" 

"Nothing." 

Jackson pulled his hands out after having lingered for a moment and held them in the air, as if to show he wasn't holding a weapon. In this case it was still to show he wasn't holding something. Ernest made a note. Section 39 of the Offences Against the Persons Act, assault. Unless he didn't consent to it. Which was a thought he was still digesting.

"Sorry, I, got a little worried." Jackson said. 

"It's okay, we're still, getting used to all this." 

The lingering, wandering hands smoked up the room, but neither of them wished to address it. That and the gun. As though it was already in Ernest's mouth. He wondered about making a break for it. Click, clack, gone. Before the sound would reach his ears. Synapses burned to nothing before the electric pain could reach him. There would be no him to reach. Never again. No more. No man. No boy. No-one. He imagined the taste of the barrel. He imagined the metalic taste in his mouth. He imagined the smell of smoke. He could feel the gas expanding in his mouth, after the trigger pull. He could imagine the bullet freeing his brain from the ability to generate continued consciousness. A final mercy medicine in pill form. 

"Can we even smoke in here?" Jackson said. 

"There's no reason we can't." Ernest replied, broken from suicidal stupor. 

"Well, tomorrow if they smell the smoke then it would be a giveaway that someone's been here."

"Do cigarettes smell that bad?"

"The smoke not so much, provided it's just one, the butts really stink though." 

"If the smoke alarm's too sensitive it might trip."

"Come on, let's go out into the garden." 

Jackson grabbed the lighter and followed through the spacious extension. All a performance for the upwardly mobile family of four this building was designed to ensnare. Just so they in turn could demonstrate to all the neighbours the measure of their wealth that they could have a conservatory that could sit unused. Nobles used to have fields they could afford to not cultivate, now its all the rage to have an extension sitting unused. People never change. 

Lighting up a cigarette with a long lighter is not ideal. It contradicts the reflexes of a seasoned smoker. Such that the nonsmoker had to intervene. 

"Sorry." 

"I thought you'd be better at this."

"I usually have a zippo but I left it at home." 

There was a hole in his thigh where it was supposed to be. Like leaving a finger behind. It belonged right there. As a part of him. His personal affects. A silver square that led other people to see him as a seasoned person of some taste. Of course now he was sitting in girl clothes in someone else's house. There was no more good taste left for him now. He burned the thought away with a long drag of the cigarette. There was a barely audible crackle. Before he let the smoke out again. 

"It doesn't smell great." Jackson said.

"It tastes worse." 

"No way." 

"You want to try?" Ernest held it out. 

Hands moving slow deterred by years of lectures preaching the harm of nicotine. Still they took of it. There's something intimate about sharing a cigarette with someone. Ernest thought back, to a guy in high school. How close he got. He wasn't gay, Ernest wasn't either. He wasn't gay, he couldn't be. Sitting there, a faggot in women's clothing.

Sudden coughing brought his attention back to the boy next to him. 

"I should've warned you." Ernest tapping Jackson's back, as though the action would make up for forgetting. 

"No it's okay. I just, I mean you do look pretty natural when you do it."

"I've always been a natural."

"When did you start?"

"It was at a party, I was 17, I remember other people coughing, but not me. I didn't want to be the kind of person who coughed on their first drag."

"Drag?"

"It's what we call this."

Taking another breath, their saliva touching, microbiome introductions. 

"Right." Jackson paused. 

The sky burned the same orange as the end of the cigarette.

"It's a nice sunset." Jackson said.

"West facing." 

"What."

"The house, it's west facing, usually south facing is better. More expensive."

"What?" 

"Well you know, property values."

"I can't say I do." 

"You should, you wanted to get into business, land is the most serious business of them all nowadays."

"I'm not sure land really is business."

"How can it not be? It's wealth, the management, disposition, registration and possession of land are all serious business." 

"I guess in a small island country that could be the case."

"Not all of the nations of the earth could inherit so much land, but even in the US I imagine land disputes colour a lot."

"I wouldn't know."

"Well, neither would I." 

"I don't think I wanna go into a land business."

"Makes sense." 

The cigarette burned its last. There was no more function that could be brought from it, it's time had come. Snuffed out on the brickwork, discarded on a piece of stone tiling. Jackson carefully extricated the various objects, bricks, a bottle, a magazine, that he had lined up to make sure the door wouldn't close on them.

"Next time I should open a window." Jackson said, putting the loose brick back on the side of the outdoor tiling. 

"Never have just one exit."

"Right, I guess there's still a lot to learn."

"Where'd you learn this stuff? Some true crime podcast?"

"My dad was MARSOC, I heard all the stories without having to buy some book, some of the stories they leave out the book too." 

"Shall we." Ernest gestured inside.

The house had three bedrooms, generous for the suburbs Ernest thought. Enough to fit mom and dad, two kids, and then mom and dad and a guestroom once the seperation set in. Such was the life cycle of the average family. A tale as old as the four walls had been up. The cycle repeated, and regurgitated in the same way. Humans would always live the same normal life. The extermities outweighed by the average. Nobody would notice if the smallest flake of finger skin turned to dust. The dust that stood as the proof they had stood there. 

"I'll take the." Ernest said gesturing towards the ostensible guest room.

"We're sharing a bed." 

"What?" 

"It's simipler that way." 

"Simpler?"

"We need to the impact we have on this place at the lowest possible level."

"I suppose that makes sense."

"You're not gay are you?"

"What? Well. No. No I'm not, are you? It's fine if you are."

"I've only fucked girls." 

"Me too. I have a girlfriend." 

"I'm not judging." 

"I'm not. I'm not gay."

"Then there's no problem right? It'll be just like summer camp." 

"You don't snore do you."

"No, do you?"

"If I did she would've complained about it." 

The she standing behind his words. A conversational shadow. That was how she fit best.

"Did you really even?"

"What."

"It's nothing." Jackson sighed. "Let's get some rest. We're up early. We gotta mount up and move out before they come back here for the day's veiwing." 

"Sounds good." Ernest paused. "Wait what am I going to wear."

"Aren't boxers fine?"

"Well, I suppose so, shall we, could you, maybe turn around."

"Why? You said you weren't gay."

"So did you, is there anything you want to see here."

Jackson responded by stripping. His body was thin and toned. The kind of man who kept himself in shape. Through the gym or otherwise. His skin still pale a class marker of the kind of office drone he still was. Even the toned muscles were the hallmark of a weekly gym routine. 

"You're starring, faggot." 

He looked away. Then immediately realized how complicit he was.

"Are you? Blushing?" 

"It's just, not something someone's supposed to just expect, when they meet someone."

"It's your turn now, I've shown you mine. Now you show me yours."

"Well, no you haven't shown me yours. Besides do you want to show your dick to another guy wouldn't that make you the faggot."

"Man even the way you deny you're a faggot is so faggy." 

"I'm not like that."

"Whatever man."

"Whatever." It was time to bite the bullet. 

Ernest started to strip. Realizing as he started that his underwear was still. It wasn't exactly the kind of undergarments you would expect from a man. He could try to play it off. Minimize it. He was wearing the kind of thing that a woman would wear. 

"You know I didn't expect you to have gone the whole way. Nice job." Jackson said.

Ernest wasn't baited. He continued to extricate himself from the tights. Was there much a difference between a body so tightly bound in clothes, and one that was wholly naked. Yes there was. There so obviously was. There was no way otherwise. He felt like a present, unravelling to reveal the gift underneath. 

What lay beneath was a pile of bones. Not so thin as to be worrying, but still thin. Little body hair, pale skin, paler than an office drone, these were the hallmarks of those who denied the daylight ways of society. Keeping their body in stasis as their brain rots in its skull in a milleu of social media and stress. There was no muscle. An ancillary function, when the principal function of life had become devoting one's life to sitting in the same position. Neck craned over the same screens. He thought about changing underwear but erred against it feeling Jackson's overbearing gaze. 

"Is that enough of a show for you."

"Thank you my lady."

Ernest burst out laughing. 

"You know, it wouldn't be gay, if you were a woman." Jackson said. 

"You're just saying that."

"I do mean it."

"Been so long you forgot what a real woman was like?"

"Six months."

"Short memory then."

"Okay it was a little longer."

"How much longer."

"When was the last time you fucked? You live with a woman." 

"One year."

"Can you call it a relationship?"

"Loveless marriages are still marriages."

"What's the point of a marriage without."

"You're talking a lot about love."

"I've had a girlfriend."

"How many years ago was that?"

"She, we were." Jackson paused. "I don't."

"You're lonely, don't let that feed some delusions. I'm not a woman. I'm not gay. We're just doing this for the cameras. We're. Just here for the ransom." Each word burning in Ernest's throat like stomach acid.

"It's just business." Jackson replied.

"Let's get some sleep."

"We're going to be up early."

The bed was spacious. The mattress was new. They were the first souls to use it for its intended purpose. The warmth of an animal. Two animals. Under blankets. Cold house with heating turned off. The only warmth in the world lying next to each other. Surrounded by humans, humans with worries. Taxes, loans, mortgages jobs. Two animals. The only responsibility of an animal, to avoid predators, to find food, to find water, to find a warm place to sleep. That was all they need do. It was warm under there. So warm. Drawn together to bathe in warmth.

The clarion call of an alarm dredged the two of them from slumber. Jackson's casio was laid straight, parelell to the grooves in the bedside table. It was still dark outside. Not a time for humans to leave their bed. It was the time of the creatures. 

"Up and at 'em." Jackson gave Ernest a shake. 

An Ernest who was still struggling to shake off the shackles of sleep. Gaba on the brain, bleeding in and out of reality. 

"It's time to wake up." A second attempt. 

A shove sufficient implement to get him up. Sudden touch lighting the fuse. He sat up in bed in reaction. His head span around. Sudden movements to ascertain the surroundings. 

"Rise and shine."

"What time is it?" 

"Time for us to go."

"It's so early."

"Rule 1." 

"Okay." Ernest started to get up and ready. 

"Good boy." 

Ernest tried to hide his smile. It was just business. It was only a business relationship.

"Where are we going next?" Ernest asked. 

"We're going West."

"Backtracking?" 

"Not quite. Let's get mounted up."

"Wait what do I wear."

"It's your choice."

"My choice?"

"Except for the clothes you wore near the airport. You can wear any guy clothes you want." 

"Should we get rid of those?"

"We would have to burn them, but. It might be a good idea. They're the last thing tying you to that person checking in."

"I wonder if they've realized something."

"Who would?"

"I did tell her I was going to be gone a couple of weeks. I don't talk to my dad."

"Then we're all good."

"Yeah." 

The small provisions were gathered up and itemized. It was still dark when they left. Cover of darkness. Once again he was dressed outside as a woman. Jackson took point, checking corners. There wasn't even a fox. Not a soul. Not a car on the road. A world with only the two of them. 

"It's easier like this." Jackson said.

"What?"

"There's no-one else here."

"And?" 

"I don't have to think about anything." 

"We need to find where we're sleeping." 

"We'll figure it out."

Walking past houses. Past fields. Into hamlets. Legs screaming. Muscles aching. More activity than they had undergone in years. Ripping themselves apart in lactic acid. Burning away locomotion. He couldn't keep up. His brain trying to use muscles that could no longer operate. Blood desperate for oxygen forcing him to breathe deep and frantic.

"Are you good?"

"It's just. I've not. It's been."

"We can sit down for a moment."

"Do you know. Where we're going?"

"Rule 1."

"You can't interpret. This. You can't interpret." Ernest's argumentation undermined by his panting.

"Breathe. In and out. In and out. Breathe deep, not like this."

Oxygen dissolved lactic acid. Chest no longer thumping. Homeostatic environment returned. 

"Sorry."

"I knew you didn't have a job but."

"I'm sorry."

"We don't need to get moving really."

"I'm sorry Jackson."

"It's okay. I pushed you too hard."

"No. I'm sorry, yesterday. Just because it's business doesn't mean I have to."

"Why are you bringing this up now?"

"Look, you and I we're going to be spending at least a few weeks together."

"Most likely."

"Then, we do have to get along."

"Customer service is important."

"No, not just. Not just like that."

"What do you mean, you're the one who said it."

"I didn't like saying it."

"Okay? Then?"

"We're going to be living together. Spending all our time together, eating and drinking, sleeping even." 

"Yeah?"

"We might need to go a little bit beyond customer service levels of familiarity."

"Coworkers in changing rooms see each other like that." 

"You're lonely. I'm lonely."

"I never said I was lonely."

"Well. I suppose that was, I just meant."

"If you're lonely then that's your problem, how do you manage to be lonely with a girlfriend."

The conversation curling and crystalizing into a knife at Ernest's gut. 

"I."

"We don't need to turn into therapists to get through this."

"I'm a miserable person." 

"I know." 

"No. I'm a person who makes everyone else miserable. I'm a terrible person. I'm going to. I'm the worst person you've ever known, the worst person you've ever met."

"You'd have to have an impressive record to reach that level."

"What?"

"I don't think you're going to ever beat him. Not with a body like that. How many people have you killed? How many times did you come home drunk, to beat your cheating wife." 

It had to be, the father. The kind of person who can command the right to be known simply as 'him,' in one's life.

"I."

"I don't think you could reach that level. Unless there's something you're not telling me."

"I can't hurt people." 

"Because he hurt you, is that it?" 

"Not just." The words started to shake. Rumbling in his gut, tearing like boulders in his mind. Rational thought drowned in the sound of a landslide. "I." 

"You're not the only person who's been through life." 

Ernest sat there in silence. Jackson now took out a map and a compass. Triangulating the way they've taken. Once Ernest's breath had come back he crawled over. They were in a field, one of the many green and rolling hills of the region. Green as far as the eye could see, going up and down. There were no towns. No highways. Not even pathways, having strayed into the dirt tracks that mark the edge of the growing areas, empty by the time of year. Lost in the fairest landscapes one could imagine. 

"How's it going?" 

"Rule 1." 

"Well, do you know where we are."

"I have the beginnings of an idea."

"So, we're lost."

"We crossed the highway, right?" Jackson pointed at the motorway. 

"That was a while ago I feel like." 

Jackson stared at the map some more, the compass some more, as though they were going to give exact co-ordinates.

"I should've got a GPS." Before cutting himself off. It was a dumb idea they both knew it. "Stupid." Said under his breath. He took the compass out.

"We don't need to know where we are." Ernest said. 

"What do you mean."

"Well. Wait is this map the right way up?"

"Right. That's. A good idea." 

Jackson turned the map so it lined up with the compass. Ernest tried to dampen his reaction. It appeared that neither of them were outdoor creatures. Ancillary navigational skills severed away with years of confinement. 

"We're just going west right, there are several towns around here. if we just go west, provided your compass works, we should end up somewhere with houses." Ernest ran his hand over the map. "Going by the motor way here, then that means that we're here, somewhere." He pointed with his finger in a circle. "Where exactly is immaterial, what is material is this." He ran his finger over several towns. "There are towns in every direction west of here, more southwest but as long as we go southwest then."

"That's assuming we've been going west since the highway."

"Even if it isn't it can't have been long since we crossed it, if you want to be safe, we could go more south than west." Lining his arm up with the compass. "That way." 

"I guess, maybe that might work, let's try it your way for a bit."

Holding the compass they followed it's direction south west.

"Why are we headed west anyway?" Ernest asked as they crossed into another field. 

"I know the area."

"Doesn't that make it risky?" 

"It doesn't know me well enough."

"So, we're just headed that way?"

"Yeah." 

Continuing to find new paths to worm their way around fields. Technically they were in fact trespassers. Ernest listened out for the snap of a twig, not for an animal, but for a farmer eager to settle a score. There was some solace in the notion that castle doctrine was not good law here. They would not find themselves summarily executed, brain matter to nourish the fields. It's all biomass. Find some use, a way to feed a family. 

The town came into view. Civilization did not, the fields had become civilized. There is no wilderness here anymore. All of it registered and regulated now. The ink drying on the death certificate of the old world. 

"Are we finding another house for sale?"

"I want to find someone on holiday."

"Isn't it a bit late for a holiday?"

"Christmas holdays start soon."

"Jackson."

"Yeah?"

"I'm hungry. My muscles ache."

"It's just going to be a little further."

It was 5pm, the horizon bathed in the afterglow of the day. People regimented, allowed to leave their post without sanction. Lights went on, marking the houses in occupation, marking the remainder as targets. Knocking on the door, a last resort to see if there are any occupiers. Like lighting a fuse, listening behind the door for any indication of a coming bang. Ding dong ditch, with extra stakes. After five minutes of waiting, ears straining, the breaking and entry began. The cursory search for keys which was unfounded, and then the standard slick operation of a pick sliding in. It never took him very long. 

Their new home. Their cave, their warm place to sleep. The smell was the first noticeable element. The smell became a warning to all those who would cross the threshold. It was strong, and thick, it smelt like pennies. This was not for you. This house is not yours. Consider that when you pass it. There was a soft bed of postal notices on the floor of the entrance. Jackson took his backpack and slid it in front of him, hand delving, finding the gun. The implement necessary to make any place your own. To turn land to wasteland. Hid it in his pocket. 

The unlawful killing of another, common law offence. Intention, direct or indirect required. Possible statutory defenses, both partial and full available. Case law blooming at the back of Ernest's mind. Cascading plea possibilities his rubric of violence. 

"Wait here."

Rule three rang in his ears. Though rules one and three seemed to rhyme with each other. The steps grew distant. Every second the barrier between silence and the inevitable gunshot. It never came. For a moment the air seemed breathable again. Then a sudden surge of activity. Jackson ran back.

"No good."

"What? There's someone here."

"There. Was. Someone here."

"What?"

Jackson's face was pale. 

"We're." Jackson stammered. His breathing was ugly, his face moved and contorted in ways it shouldn't. 

"Look at me." 

Jackson looked down into Ernest's eyes. Jackson's blue eyes feverish with fear. 

"We have to approach this situation rationally. This house is empty. It's a dead body, it's just rusted meat. Dry bones."

"You, you didn't, you didn't. You didn't." 

"If they're dead. Then we can take whatever we want." 

"We." 

"I can look."

"We can't sleep." 

"We can sleep here." 

"The bed, it's." 

"We can sleep on the floor, or the sofa. It's better than the outside."

"No, if we're here then, we leave, evidence, the police will come here. It's, he's it's I should have."

"You're shaking."

"How can you be so relaxed." 

"I don't know. It's just not registering." 

Jackson looked at Ernest as though he wasn't even human anymore. Disqualified by words.

"What have we touched Jackson. Give me a list." 

"We, we touched the door, we touched the entry way, I didn't touch anything else." 

"Okay. Let's find some cleaning supplies, let's salvage what we can from here."

"We can salvage but." Jackson rooted around in his bag. "You're going, I'll clean from here."

"You know what you're doing?"

"Mineral oil and a cloth." 

"Okay."

"Here." Jackson held out a surgical mask and a flashlight.

The living room had a wonderful carpet. The interior design was different. There were no golden ratios between the different pieces of furniture. There were dents in the floor around arm chairs. The footsteps of a once vibrant life carved into the wood's petina. Now it was all waste. The mantlepiece had a clock made of marble, there was a pocket watch resting against it. Nothing worth taking. At the back of the living room there was a silver set of drawers for paperwork. A birth certificate, worn and old and dated to 1937. Each drawer a chapter of life, charting from birth to school, to medical records, to marriage, into children, and divorce, wills and tears. A human catalogue. A normal life. The only proof remaining the ink on paper, the people who still retained the person in their minds. 

A lucky break. At the back there was cash. A lot of cash. It was next to the will, nestled next to letters of wishes. Ernest felt torn. Take the money, rip the letters. It would be safest. No sign of the indent they left in the place. At the same time it would make his children feel like he had forgotten them. He was a dead man. It doesn't matter anymore when all you are is plastered on the wall. Dry bones. All that's left. He took the letters with the money. 

On the ceiling was a brown pattern, the very measure of a man. A corpse left to it's decay process. A sad way to go. Alone in your house. In the ruins of a life that in a few seconds from your passing will be nothing. Ernest wondered if he would go in much the same way. 

"I got something."

"Woah. This is a lot." 

"We're lucky in a way. Old people are the only ones to use cash nowadays." 

"I did bring some but this good for a while." Jackson paused. "Good job." Ernest didn't flinch as Jackson ruffled his hair.

"Should we go?"

"We'd better."

They found another house for sale. Their standard operating proceedure. Finding a system of their own to exist.

