---
title: The Other Side
---

A clarion call. An alarm set to be the final line of defense before passing into lateness. What he perceived as late. He was still cradling the bowl. His hands white. His vomit tinged a garish sickly yellow, bitter green bile mixing in between. He wondered what would happen if he mixed it all together. If it would be blue. 
Foot buzzing, body tensing, bile flowing. A voice was shouting at him. It wasn’t his. He was going to be late. He could see his manager telling him with a smile. Tim, that sick saccharine smile. A manager should at least feign some level of sadness on behalf of an employee. He scrambled up. A receipt clung to his foot. Reflexive flailing to set it loose. It danced in the air. He had to get going, he had to get dressed. His hand white. Hands taught with stress squeezing all the blood out. 

A mouthful of antiacids dissolving in his mouth. Minty fresh. Trying to keep the next wave of vomit back while he got dressed. The convulsions of failure, as vomit passed all the same. His nerves were so fried he didn’t even feel the headache characteristic of a hangover. Broken body unable to do even that much. If he was less of an addict, he would feel even worse. The depths of nauseous delirium shielding him from the worst of it. 

It was normal after all. Vomiting on a Wednesday morning, with work at its usual time. He made it to the bowl. He had nothing left to give, dry heaving. Perfect for a business suit which couldn’t take any stains. He would prefer not to have to take it to the dry cleaner over the weekend. 

Not so much to have to spend the money, he had money. Even as he hated to part with it. It was to reduce the degree to which his habit was a problem. Weekends fueled by cheap booze and cheap pizza to mop it up. Expendable cardboard. Something to keep his hands busy as he drunk. It would be thrown up later anyway. He wouldn’t let the calories become part of himself. Hanging on his frame. Globs of fat. He read about it once, the way it would infiltrate his organs. 

Watch affixed to his arm the final element. His hair was longer, he tied it up, trying to thread the needle between shaggy and chic and failing at both. He should really cut it. Like his dad always made him. Shorter, that year he got called baldy. He had shaved. It wasn’t that the concept of hair removal was offensive. Every morning, an iron part of his routine, more so than brushing his teeth. Cleaned his glasses with his tie. 

His pulse quickened looking at the time. At this rate he would be late. The fear screamed through his spine. Ripping through vertebrae. Tim would be here. He was coming. If he lost the job, then. He wouldn’t do that. He’d figure something out. Feet in loafers, tight enough to give him blisters. Even more so if he dared to run, dared his body to twist his ankle. 

The walk hurt. The joints hurt. They always hurt. From the moment he could walk his first to the day he walks into the bed that will hold him as he dies, they will always hurt. A continuity of pain tapped into the strange way he walked. 

The standard route walked alone, at higher speed than when together. He was going to be late after all. Lose his job. Have his visa cancelled, his apartment cancelled. His paycheck would be reduced in line with breach of his own contract. That couldn’t happen. If only that body would let him run. If he could carry himself to work a little faster. The cortisol concentration in his blood burning away any bile rising at the back of his throat. 

He arrived at work precisely twenty minutes early. This was a 10-minute reduction on usual. He had not stopped for breakfast. Not that he could eat anything. Sustained on caffeine pills that made him no more nauseous than usual and anti-acids, he crawled into work. The lowest level of English education in Japan. A great job for a Japanese graduate after the British economy fell apart. Hanako gave him a nod from behind her desk as she tended to separate but equally onerous superiors. If he lost his visa he would have to go back to that decaying old ruin. 

Jessica rounded the corner. She was ten minutes early. Always on the cusp of starting to feel as though she were going to be late. Of course he would cover for her. They were colleagues after all. Fighting against the company. In their own ways at least. 

“Any news from back home?” She asked.

“I haven’t heard anything.” He said back. 

“I feel so far away here.”

“We are far away Jessica.”

“Right.”

He scratched the back of his head. “Sorry. I know you’re worried. You’re going back soon right.”

“Yeah, Tim’s signed off on my leave so there shouldn’t be any problem there.” 

“That’s good.” The words tasted bitter.

“Yeah. You know I was worried he’d say no.”

“Has he?” 

“No. But I’m always worried.”

“Right.” She didn’t know after all, the requests he had made and been denied.

The bell rang out, and she got to work. It was just him and the clipboard and Hanako sitting out front. A golden time to mess around on his phone. Drifting between Shogi, snake, and social media. Until Hanako gets up and starts clearing one of the classrooms. It had been cleaned yesterday, had gone unused in the time between. The appearance of propriety, a performance made for cameras and management. It made him look like the lazy slovenly useless shit for brains he was. Each insult dug into his spine spurring him into an awkward locomotion. He went into the other classroom and started mopping. Better than being back home. 

The long road home. He remembered hearing the news. It was everywhere all at once. He was in bed, scrolling. He smiled. It was brief. Before the stress swallowed him whole. Chewed in great gnashing teeth. Spine crunched and spat out. Jess it had been different. He remembered her face that morning. She was so worried about her family back home. Did they get out, all of the usual. He nodded, he hugged, he put on a sad face. He couldn’t join her sadness. Then she talked about going home. He was a regular person. He knew losing a home would hurt. He knew it. He knew it. Then the trip back home. A whole half of her yearly leave, seven days off, plus weekends back in blighty. He swallowed. There was no place he wouldn’t rather not be. Not there. Not again. A hatred shown in trembling hands kept out of eyeshot. 

Normal people would hate if this happened to their country. If it got torn apart and turned into something altogether different to what it was. His dad called. He couldn’t ignore them. Not this time. Each word exchanged a nail on a mask he affixed to his face. Bleeding tears of blood through the circular wounds. His mother wouldn’t hang up. Two hours of free time at home gone in an instant. Drowned in crying conversation. Yes mother. I’m so sorry about the house mother. His house. Once. Not his home. That ceased the moment he had a new space to occupy. 
The day dragged on. Jess came out of lesson. They both had a free period. Which meant standing handing out flyers to Japanese patrons who couldn’t be less interested. It was on a weekday too. They didn’t have the decorum even to bow and move on. 

“Where did your parents live?” Jess asked.

“Mine? My dad lived in Brighton, my mom in London.” 

“I guess you always gave that vibe.” 

“Privately educated.”

“Yes.”

“I was.”

“I know.” 

He paused. He was such an asshole. The exact kind of asshole that was spat out by those institutions. Wanker making machines, new boys brought in and broken year on year. 

“So, your parents. Where did they live.” He said stroking the back of his neck. 

“Midlands.”

“Yellow zone?” 

“Yeah.” 

“That’s not that bad.” 

She looked at him.

“Well, I mean. Given the circumstances.” 

He was such a prick. 

“They did have to move out.”

“Where are they now?” 

“Resettled. I think near Cambridge.”

“You ever visited Cambridge?”

“No.” 

“It’s really nice, if you go you should try punting. The town itself is pretty as well. I wonder if.”

“I don’t think it’s the same as you remember. Not now.”

He paused. Only a week. That dance of normalcy, the music having stopped. The players gone home. The glass broken.

“Well neither of us really know.” 

“I guess.” 

She started looking on her phone. He did double duty. Trying to show the right level of salesperson enthusiasm. It was his fault after all. She didn’t want to talk anymore. He couldn’t just be normal could he. An old man batted his hand away. He couldn’t do anything right could he. 

They went back to the branch, she told him she had her own lunch, and that was a kind way of telling him to leave. Up to the food court he went. 550 sweet yen on a tempura rice bowl. Everything was so cheap up here. Piling on the free toppings like the foreigner he was. No decorum in a plate piled high with the spring onion, tempura bits, and red pepper flake. He didn’t care. The place was empty. A few scattered workers around forgotten flotsam kept around to keep the shopfronts occupied. There were worse places to be in the world. He plucked the last grains of nourishment from the bowl, left it at the window. Said the right words, with good pronunciation. Back to work.
There were bookings arranged on his schedule now. He took held of the clipboard, read through the asinine material of the textbook. Ten years out of date. Two adult lessons, break, free period rather, and one middle school lesson. In that order. He jotted down the lessons, did the minimal amount of prep necessary to educate. Speaking only in English. At least he liked one of the adults, could talk history, hear about the old man’s garden. Have him ask about the latest developments in the UK. He was a tech guy after all. Good old Hifumi. The hour fifty minute session came to an end with both of them with a smile on their faces. Departing from the book awash with little asides. 

The next lesson would be dryer. A new student. No rapport or ability. He wanted to learn how to sing in English for karaoke. An interesting reason.