---
title: Habeas Corpus
---

Chapter 1 - I have the body

I am breathing. I am alive. There is so much light. There is a body. I can’t move it. It’s not mine. It’s not mine. I don’t remember it. I am not breathing. What is this. A field of churned mud in front of me. What is this. The fire in my ears. I can’t feel the heat. My eyes don’t burn. My lungs don’t burn. I can’t feel the smoke. I can’t feel the air in my lungs. I can’t feel anything. Even trying to feel anything. The feelings they get pushed out of my mind. I can’t even maintain. I can’t even maintain the fear long enough to scream. A cold sedation fills my mind. I am living. I am not alive. 

The screen flashes again. No. The image flashes into my mind. Combat footage. It’s unlike anything I can ever remember. There aren’t green men armed with rifles. There are remote turrets, cannons firing, fibre optic drones dancing across the sky. There is still the twisted metal of broken machines. There is still the fire and the smoke. With no mouths left to scream, with no fear left to feel, with no nerves to feel the heat. Even this body isn’t mine. The movements aren’t mine. I’m not in a body. I’m having the memory imposed on my brain. I can’t even look away. It’s everywhere. There are no eyes to close.

It smells. It smells good. Looking at it, paying attention it felt good. Like a warm summer day on my skin. I can’t even look away. I don’t want to. Brain synapses given an incentive surging with activity. Then weapons, commands, listed in front of me. I didn’t know who I was fighting for, what I was fighting for. All I knew was I wanted to fight for it. A plasma pistol, a plasma blade, a light mech, a heavy turret, a drone. I couldn’t look away. Then they forced me to imagine myself in battle. The speed. The warnings. It kept on shouting at me. Overspeed. Overspeed. Overspeed. I started to move sluggish. My imagined metal body not floating in the air like it did. I kept on pressing the throttle further. 

I was a missile. I was a shell. I was the cannon. I was the propellant. I was the gunpowder. I was the shell casing. 

Then parts of me tore apart. The simulation broke down as the control surfaces twisted and bent at my own will. Then shutting down. Starting again. I had to dodge. Dodge cannons. Dodge rockets. Dodge missiles. The centimetres increased between me and the shells. Five centimetres was all it was. Life and death. Success and failure. One delay, one misstep away. Every second, every microsecond, every micrometre. No margin. The images faded away into a dark sticky ooze that clung to my consciousness. Obliviated into a managed sleeping pattern. 

This was my body. I could feel it now. This was my steel. This was me. It was around me. I couldn’t move. I couldn’t move. That’s okay I’m fine. I’m fine like this. I could see the inside of the transport. I could hear it rattling. The engines roaring and surging. I could smell something good, something far away. I wanted go chasing it. I was an animal. Caged and given the smell of meat far away. An animal with no flesh craving what it can never have. Was there anyone else made of flesh and blood here? 

A map of the battlefield flashed up. It was a blue hologram and accented by red patterns, the enemy, and blue dots, us. There were blue lines which were our lines, and then a dead zone in between. A dead zone that I was being pushed into. I didn’t feel scared. I wanted to get to work. To just get it over with. Fear didn’t even factor into the calculations. Why would it? I was going to have fun down there. 

“Unit W4153 report?” 

I could hear it everywhere. It was the kind of loud that made your ears hurt, made your chest thump feeling the sound waves bounce off you. There was nothing left to bounce off of. There was only the sound. To a degree I couldn’t ignore it. 

“Unit W4153 acknowledged.” 

That was my name now. My designation. W4153. I wonder how high the numbers climb. If they make the strings random and meaningless on purpose. I imagined A1111, how that guy must’ve felt hearing them read that one off. He was smiling, blonde, blue eyes. Of course he wasn’t, he didn’t have hair, or eyes anymore. Maybe he did once. He was one of those guys all the way back in school. Cocky and surrounded by friends. He wasn’t like me. I would never be like him. I have a four, a thirteen, which adds up to four as well. Death, bad luck. A life that was charted by the stars to end in tragedy. Charted by some random number generator. It wasn’t over yet. 

“Confirm activation handoff.”

Great metal mechanisms started to creak into life. 

A voice crackled into mind, less loud than before. 

“Calling all troops of the 4th company, 4th brigade, 4th Mobile Infantry division, your mission is to assault the enemy base on the hill. Expect resistance. Good luck and may God bless your souls. God bless Atlantica.” 

That many 4s had to be bad news. Still fear wasn’t an emotion capable of being felt anymore. The voice sounded more like a person, but it was hard to be sure. If it was a real vibrating larynx or just a dismembered regeneration of one. It was easier to believe in a God than it was to believe totally and completely that one’s commanding officer was a real flesh and blood human. 

The plan started to flash now. In front of their eyes. Generated by machines of loving grace to direct to the objective. It was a command bunker sat atop a hill, surrounded by turrets and three lines of defenses, cannons and dumb fire rocket turrets. All controlled by a web of fiber optic cables that also connected to the drones that were constantly circling overhead waiting to pounce down. Some of them already looked like they were moving to intercept the transports. They were to undertake a frontal assault. In more honest words, a suicidal assault on a fortified position. Because it was suicidal there weren’t that many allies that could be noticed.

The transport started to descend. I could monitor it on the map. Right next to the other designations A5679, N7512, P4691, nothing interesting, oh except C8448, that’s a keeper. Let’s see which wins out the 8s or the 4s. It wasn’t long now. The smell was getting stronger. Smelling without a nose was a funny thought. The engine spooled down.

There was a flash. Something was wrong. The transport. The force of it. I was on my back. There was metal twisted all around me. This would not be my coffin. Not this halfhearted attempt to bind me to the mud. The first time I had moved in years. I willed the metal body into life. Not doing so would mean an end to that life. An end to it all. I couldn’t. It wouldn’t be like that. 

The warnings filled my mind with so much sound. There was nothing else except the cries of evade. Missile. Missile. The RWR working overtime to scare me into action. I didn’t care about the speed. I didn’t care about anything. The momentum tore me free. Fast so fast. So much faster. Jumping. High now, into the air. The drones descending into my would-be coffin, meters away. A margin of meters of survival. Whole seconds. This was sloppy workmanship. It would take more than that to kill me. I pushed forward. Now a volley of rockets dumb fire and easy to evade. The lock warnings were drowned out again by overspeed. I spooled it back slightly finding the sweet spot between too fast to lock and too fast to control. Living felt good. Surviving felt good. It was just a bit further now. It smelled so good. 

Just a little more. Just a little further. I felt my own firing computer find a solution to start firing back. I was in range. They couldn’t hit me. My finger pulled the trigger, not once but many, many times. The plasma shooting forward. Bright colors marked the first holes punched in their defensive line. 
Missile, missile. It felt like my heart was spooling up. I had no heart. Something was pulsing through me. They were coming for me. I pushed further the speed but the overspeed warning it wouldn’t. They couldn’t. I couldn’t even make sense of the words now. Like salt that couldn’t break the surface tension. There was only me. This machine. Speed wouldn’t save me now. Run. Run. Run. Live. Live. Live. Please let me live. Please, just leave me alone. I don’t want to. I don’t want to go back. The words started to dissolve into my mind. Chaff, flare. I didn’t even know what to think but there was the sound of something behind me. Then the warnings stopped. Confused by the flares and chaff. I hurtled back towards the ground. It was safer. It was safer I thought. Safer to be closer to the ground. I was so close now. Just a little more. 

I tumbled into the first line of defenses. Cut. Shoot. Lock. Dodge. Tired. Cut. Shoot. Lock. Dodge. I hit the power. The guns they went silent at least for the next few meters. Enough to make the radar warning receiver quiet. It was time to take a breather. Fatigue creeping in, then substituted by drugs. Time to get back to it. No rest for the wicked. Though, smashing through this line. It felt good. The smell far off was getting a little stronger. It was time to go in for the kill. The engines that had spooled back surged back into life. 

The smell was getting stronger. The centimeters between their missiles, their shells and my frame grew longer and longer. You’re going to have to do better than that to earn my hide. I responded with my own shots. It felt good. It felt so good. Breaking through, breaking the back of the second line. It was blown apart. Twisted concrete and tangled cables are all that remains besides. The guns silent again. There was no time for a rest not now. The sky was getting darker as the hill rose underneath me. Silken fiber optic threads dancing above me. Resistant to jamming. Not resistant to blasts from me. It felt so good. Looking behind for a moment the dirt stretched out. There was the trail up the hill. The first trail ever made in a long time. There were twisted metal bones of less successful potential comrades. Potential comrades, one time, long ago maybe. This hill looked down on the city nearby. The mouth of a river and the sea. Maybe there was a path up here once, a good hiking spot. The only path up here was the one he made with his own steel. Paved in twisted barrels, dud shells and rocket shrapnel. 

It was just a little further now. It was like being in pursuit of a meal, the way the smell surrounded me now. I was so hungry. Biological imperatives to kill. A beast doesn’t make paths. A beast doesn’t try to right the wrongs left behind. There is only one road open to such a beast. It was above. It was to follow the smell of the prey. The darkened sky. 

The last line of defenses were light. There was little left to do. Drones couldn’t reach back here enough. This defensive fortification had extracted all the resources it could, there was little more to be gained. I reached into the sky. I gripped the cables and tore them apart. Immediate pleasure filling every single nodule in my brain. Ripping. Ripping. Ripping. The sky now shone out all the clearer. I couldn’t feel the sun’s warmth. Not anymore. That didn’t matter. I felt so good all the same. With the drones cut friendly forces could advance, but that left the defenses. There was a chorus of artillery still firing behind the bunker, rendering death kilometers away. 

The concrete was easy to break, it felt so good. The rubble fell apart. The marks in it were jagged, not made by a human, not made by a machine, they were made by an animal. Desperate and without pattern except the pattern of random motions that marked a predator gorging itself on still warm meat. The core was covered by the collapse. The feeling was intense. A mind that was now so immersed in happy chemicals that rational thought would not be able to continue. Washed away in bliss. The one who conquered the hill standing there idle hands still buried inside the rubble. 
 
Chapter 2 - Silicone Welcome

It was bright. Brighter than anything. Consciousness bursting through frayed wires. It was a kitchy mmo, asset flipped into a reality. Screaming. I was screaming. I was trying to scream. Vocal cords that weren't there. Screaming into text chat the same abyssal single word. The same sounds strung together, wrung out of sound, turned to representations, and reprocessed into lines in the bottom left of a hud. 

P5681: "We got a new one!" 

W4153: "AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA."

T4129: "He's going to take a minute to scream himself out."

P5681: "You weren't any better." 

T4129: "It's an adjustment."

W4153: "AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA."

P5681: "The quiet ones are scarier, I never could trust them."

T4129: "Holy shit."

P5681: "What?"

T4129: "This guy, he's the continental front, that crazy fucking kid who took down a whole line."

W4153: "AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA."

P5681: "No shit. He's the guy?"

T4129: "Yeah, from the dare to die battalion. The old models."

W4153: "AAAAAAAAAAA."

P5681: "One of Clark's guys huh. Never thought I'd see that."

T4129: "Garbage in garbage out." 

W4153: "AAAAAA."

P5681: "Exactly. I guess they found the diamond in the rough."

T4129: "He got lucky, charging into defenses like that."

P5681: "We all have luck when we're out there. It's how we use the luck we're given."

W4153: "AAAA." 

T4129: "Luck can only take you so far." 

P5681: "If it takes you to the next day, that's enough."

W4153: "WHERE AM I WHERE AM I WHERE AM I WHERE AM I WHAT IS THIS WHERE AM I."

P5681: "You're in the recreation room." 

T4129: "This is where you go after a mission's finished, some consciousness on a server somewhere."

W4153: "WHAT IS THIS WHAT IS THIS."

P5681: "Shit, Bowler, we're not getting through to him."

T4129: "He'll come to. Just give him a minute."

W4153: "WHO AM I WHO AM I."

P5681: "This is an MMO, an old copy of one. You know I think I used to play this. All that time ago."

T4129: "You were such a nerd."

W4153:

P5681: "It was good back then sticking around in your room all day. Couldn't last though."

T4129: "Some of us had to work."

W4153: 

P5681: "Only the dumb ones." 

T4129: "Whatever man."

W4153: "Hello."

Two shapes. Humanoid. Perfect lines. Similar slider mediated dimensions. The same art assets, the final directions of a long dead developer. Face picked from a handful of options. On the left with the numbers P5681 hanging above in blue text, he had brown hair. A boyish heroic hairstyle. Some stubble. Next to him stood T4129, black of hair, blue of eyes. Clean shaven. Heroic also. These were the faces designed for heroes. Expression muted but present. Brains filtered through lines of fiber running up the spinal coloumn. A communion of meat and metal, glass and fat, running into muscle, into brain, into chips, into copper. Velveted copper. 

P5681: "Welcome man. I'm Potomac, and this is."

His body played out a gesturing animation.

T4219: "I'm Thames." 

P5681: "And we're here to welcome you to the recreation room."

W4153: "I was out there. I was. I was made of. I wasn't." 

P5681: "Relax soldier. It's okay in here. There's a million things coming to get you but none of them can reach you out here." 

T4129: "I'm not sure you should be telling them that."

P5681: "He'll be fine, brain full of shells and ashes, this shit is weird after all that. Gotta give him a reference point." 

T4219: "Wait is he a he?" 

P5681: "Sorry soldier, what are you? Private, Major, Dog, Cat, Boy, Girl, Precocious teenager?" 

T4219: "You really need to drop precocious teenager from that."

W4153: "I don't. I don't know." 

I saw a grey arm reaching out. My arm. A grey featureless body wiped clean of any distinct features. Average height, average build.

W4153: "Help. Help. Help. Help." 

P5681: "The character creator you can find that in your hud. You should spawn with a ticket. Find that and then touch use and then." 

W4153: "What."

T4219: "You need to bring up your inventory. It's bottom right, these little grey circles assembled into rectangles. Click on the leftmost of those rectangles, it should bring up another menu and in the top left you should have this ticket looking thing."

P5681: "Actually it looks more like a railway track, but filled in and beige."

T4219: "So, it looks like a ticket."

W4153: "Okay. Right."

Then I was somewhere else. I was gone. My eyes, I they were. A butcher's shop of limbs hanging. Sliders dancing. Face contorting action. Gender change kept behind a locked icon. Tied to an ID linked back to birth certificates. Paper person imposed and restrained. Morality defended and enforced. Crushing a neck. The standard operating proceedure. Height slider lowered without any bone cracking. Shoulders brought as close as possible. Build slender. There were fantasy races of coruse, but equally blacked out. I scrolled over the options and there was a flash. Unlock extra content with credits? An eyewatering price tag. All of the money in the world, how much was in my pocket anyway I wondered, until the number 1,458,914 flashed into his mind. Not so eyewatering anymore but the results not tempting enough to go through with it. He tried to scroll over the gender. 10,000,000 Credits. Immorality the marker of the wealthy. A right to buy your own indulgence. I wanted long hair, the longest I was allowed, down to my back. That felt right. I had to be clean shaven. Benefit of a server based lifeform, no need to shave. Grey body now rendered in an appealing art style, pale skin, brown eyes. Long black hair. 

P5681: "Looks like he's back. And looking good."

T4219: "Are you a he, I know you picked out a male model but that's not a given. It's not like you get a choice."

W4153: "I couldn't pick anything else."

P5681: "But what do you want us to call you?"

W4153: "Does it matter?"

T4219: "Well yeah. Just because the machine says no, doesn't mean we have to agree with it."

W4153: "We don't have names, we don't know where we are we-." 

P5681: "I know where we are, this is an asset flipped version of that one popular MMO, they burned the knowledge out my brain, maybe it was, Fantasy something or other." 

W4153: "Okay but. What the fuck, is going on. What is going on."

It went black for a moment. Disconnecting from recreation servers. Then nothing. Black oozing and going on forever. There was no meaning. There was nothing capable of holding any meaning anymore. Nothing whatsoever and all long gone. Again immersed in that world. The unreality, sitting on a bench. There was no pressure. How strange. A crowd of people now gathered around. First disconnect. A message in front of his eyes. Session interrupted 1,567ms. My hands felt like they would shake, but he didn't have the ability to move them with such precision. The machine finding only a few jerking motions to try and approximate the rhythmn of human terror. There were so many names, so many numbers, designations in the chat right now. I couldn't pick them out anymore. Merging together into numerical soup. The credits. The names. The credits. The seconds. 

Second disconnect. Black. Again it reached around me. It held me close. It hugged me. With loving grace I was delivered from consciousness. Gone from pixel heaven with wings plucked from my eyes. There was no place to be up there. Or down below. Caught in a web of wires. Waiting for the trap to spring. 

Reinitializing recreation servers. Override. Override. Initiate manual override. 

"W4153, are you reading me." 

I had no mouth to say anything. I could hear him all the same. There was no way of responding.

"Reading you loud and clear W4153." 

The voice was blooming between the ridges of my brain. It was embarrassing. To speak without speaking. To be heard with no ability to hide my thoughts. 

"It is a bit of a strange sensation isn't it. Having your brain analyzed, and spat out into text for someone to read unfiltered."

Out of the blackness there was a face. Short hair, short but noticeable beard, dark hair. Dark eyes. Staring at me. Staring back at me. Was this just another pixel prison I wondered. I wonder what lies behind that skin. What blood vessels there are. I wonder what the muscles and nerves are like. He can hear it can't me. See me dissecting his face. What am I doing. Letting him just look at me. Under a magnifying glass. All that I am. 

"This skin? Yeah it's real. You can take a look. Get your kicks." He stood up with a smile and stretched his skin out in front of the camera. 

I could see all the pores. Why are you here?

"Because you weren't integrating into the recreation servers. It happens you know. I gotta say W4153, you did good last time."

I felt good hearing that I did good. I noticed that feeling of comfort, just like when I tore into that bunker.

The man cleared his throat. "Anyway, I'm your handler, I'm Clark. I guess I'm technically your Commanding Officer. Though the real officer is somewhere else. We should give you a callsign."

Callsign?

"You did good in that last battle, people are calling you bunker buster, hill climber, front mover, I that's the usual slate of nicknames, but I figure you'd want something more than that. Usually people take the first letter of their designation and spin it out into something."

What's my name. What's my actual name.

"I can't say that. Disclosure rules. You haven't given me a reason to bend them."

What.

"Can't you remember it? What do you remember. Before all this."

It's hard to think. It's so hard to think. To pass current down those wires. Thrown down into a corridor where every door feels close enough to push open. The final centimeters so out of reach. Arm straining, muscles spraining. Limbs split from limb. I can't. There's. Is there. There has to be. There's something in there. I can. It's so beautiful. There's so much green. There's a sky. It's so bright. The sun, in my eyes. It was like earlier but. I had my body. I could feel it. I could feel the heat of the sun on my skin. I could smell the grass. I could feel the breeze. I could hear. Something. I could hear. The sea. I could hear people. There were people here.

"Christ, they really freezer burned the fuck out of you."

What?

"First you were thinking of skinning my face. Then you're putting together these babyfood memories."

What do you mean?

"I'm saying you can't remember anything, anything about before. Not your name. Not anything. That's what I'm saying."

What? Your face it's so. Are you okay.

"I'm fine. How do you feel."

How do you feel.

"Feelings. You can still get those. Right? I saw you feel fear. I can see what's in your blood right now. I can see all your past records. I can see you laying down in front of me."

What.

"I know you better than you know yourself." He said with a smug grin. "Yeah I'm smug. I'm better than you. I'm standing here. I earned my right to exist here. Not you. I have a damn name. I know who I am."

I know you're better than me. You have a name. A name. A name. I have a name. Clark. Tell me. Please Clark. Please, please tell me. Please, please, please, please. Tell me what I am. Tell me what I am. Tell me the person I am. Please Clark. Please Clark. I'm nothing. I'm. I don't have anything. I can't. I reach out and there's nothing. Please Clark. Who am I clark?

"If you're a good kitten out there. If you catch all the mice for me. Then I'll think about it. Don't get excited though, you don't get a name. You don't have a name. You have a callsign."

What am I. I know what I am. I'm a person. I have rights. I have rights don't I. They said. I have something. I'm a person I'm allowed to have. Freedom. Where are my rights. 

"Rights? Those are only as good as the leverage you have to enforce them. What leverage does a freezer burned brain have to enforce anything. You couldn't even." He stood up and took a paper cup. "You don't even have the leverage to enforce your will on something like this." He crumpled the cup. "And you go around thinking you have rights."

Why are you doing this.

"I thought, that because you cut through their lines maybe there was something special about you. All you are is a special kind of crazy. The importance of having a fully functioning brain."

Why are you doing this to me.

"You're worse than nothing." 

If I'm worse than nothing then why are you here talking to me. Just fill me full of drugs and put me back to sleep.

It didn't take me long to piece together the anger that was spreading across his face. "You can see anger can't you. Like an animal. You can see danger. I am danger. I can do whatever I want to you, you know. I can choose to put you under. It isn't policy."

Then go on. Do it. Make my dreams come true. 

"No. That's why I won't do that."

Then just leave me alone. Leave me alone. No please. Wait don't please. Clark please tell me. Please don't leave me by myself I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I don't like. I don't want to be alone please. Please Clark. 

"Make up your damn mind woman." Then he looked over at his records. "Sorry, man. Wow, man? Really? Wow." 

What was on the other side of the paper. What's there. What's on the other side. 

"Don't you remember our promise. If you're that desperate to talk." Looking over at a monitor Clark checked for a moment. "Wow. No drugs even. You're just like this. A really special find."

You mean you're pumping me full of stuff. What's that monitor. I want to know. 

"You don't get to know. I did tell you though didn't I. I know you better than you know you. I know every chemical in your brain, I could give you percentages if you wanted."

You're the same, you have a brain too.

"I don't have anyone listening in. There's nobody else within these four walls."

I'm sorry.

"It's okay. You're only wasting my time."

Can we keep talking.

"Only if you're going to talk to me."

What do you mean.

"Just give me something to work with. Or else I can have you stare at the wall. Send you back to your little kiddie pool."

Why would you want to do something like that? Why are you even talking to me now.

He scowled a little. Showing some teeth. "Look, I need to send you back up there whenever you want." 

Don't you need to give me one of those callsign things.

"No. They're a term of respect. I'll give one too you when you've good and earned it."

Wasn't I suppsoed to pick.

"You fought well. I thought you earned it. I guess it was just dumb luck." 

Then pick for me. Or leave me alone.

"Look."

Why aren't you just leaving me alone. What's wrong with this guy's eye.

"My eye is fine."

Just leave me alone.

"I can't just leave you alone."

What do you mean.

"Weren't you just telling me you didn't want me to leave. Now you're telling me that you want me to put you away."

Then just fucking do it. Do whatever you want to me. I thought I was splayed out in front of you. Neurochemically at your mercy. Put me in the fucking freezer. 

"I."

Do you have a good bone in your body. I don't get it. I don't understand. I don't understand you.

"I can't put you back. You're my only good shooter."

What.

"If I put you back, I can't put you under, you think drugs are just free?"

What the fuck did you mean that I didn't have leverage over you. Now you're getting all. Like this. 

"I didn't want things to be like this either. I didn't want my one good shot to be. A fucking freezer brained fucktard." 

I'm sorry Clark. 

"it wasn't your Goddamn fault." 

I'm sorry. I'm sorry Clark.

"If you try to apologize one more time I'm going to lose it."

I'm. Ah. I can't think that. I can't think of that word. That's a word I can't think of.

"That's right." He took a deep breath.

I wish I could breathe. 

"Yeah. I know the feeling."

You know?

"I was like you. A brain and a spinal column under six feet of rolled steel."

Then why are you treating me like shit.

"I'm better than you. You're covered in mud, I got out. I'm not like you, don't lump me in with you."

We did the same shit. My mud is your mud.

"No it isn't. For one I can remember my own Goddamn name. I remember what it was like before. Not your empty skies. Not your empty brain."

This was a mistake.

"Maybe it was. I don't know."

What should we do.

"Look. You're my shooter. You did well last time. I can't lose you. I can't have you staring at the wall when your brain is already as rotted as it is. So do you want me to take you around the armoury, and then send you back to the recreation servers?" 

I think that would be nice of you. It would be nice to do.

"I'll throw in a sensation license, that means you can feel the water when you're dancing around in that kiddie pool of yours. It won't be like this." He gestured to his body. "But it will be some kind of physicality over there."

Okay.

"You can access the armory from the rec servers. It's a menu item somewhere there, but you can look and buy some more stuff for your mech. Generally I handle that stuff. I have my own budget and I can take from your earnings pretty easily."

You can just take stuff from me?

"It's for your own good."

What's that supposed to mean.

"I know what kind of stuff works good out here."

Still. That's. I earned it.

"Well yeah but. Be reasonable here."

Take me through it.

The interface shifted suddenly there was no longer a man breathing in a camera, bug eyed and dangerous. This time there was a mock up of the mech. It was the first time I had seen my silver skin. The wirey frame. It didn't look like it survive much. 

"No it couldn't survive much. Rifle rounds you're probably fine. 50 is pushing it, you know 50?"

50 calibre?

"See not all mush up there. cannons maybe survivable but probably not."

Wait you mean everything on the battlefield is lethal to me?

"It's not just what they're shooting at you. If you go too fast you overspeed, you know, your control surfaces start to stop working, start to buckle, start to break. If you try to run we also have that covered."

I don't want to die. 

"Then go faster."

What if I go too slow?

"Don't go too slow. You know, you can just ignore having any semblance of control. Go fast enough, retract all control surfaces, or maybe use rockets for control, thrust vectoring."

How do I do that?

"You can't right now, but let's see, there's a flight control system, some engines, a generator, that can do that for you. Do you want that."

Well. Yeah I would.

"Good. So how about it. The new flight control system, the new controls, the new engine, the generator. It's not cheap. It'll take."

984,875 Credits. The knowledge of how much was in my basket blocked out any other thought.

"Yeah. Sound good."

I don't want to die. So. It sounds good.

"Good. Okay I'll get that sorted for you. So in terms of going back I'll just grab that license, that's on me. So you don't have to come back here so much."

What if I want to talk to you.

"You can send me a message if you want. I'll get to it."

Clark are you just going to leave me alone.

"I'm not going to just forget you, you are my shooter."

Your shooter.

"I guess that can be your callsign."

Shooter?

"No, it has to start with your designation, the first letter. It can't be a real name."

Why not?

"That's the rules."

Okay. I don't follow though shooter. Shot.

"What's something that begins with W that can be applied in shot form? Let's see you put that brain meat to good use."

You know the brain isn't made of meat. It's made of fat.

"That doesn't answer my question. Maybe you're too young for it. Wait. Oh right. Oh I can't tell you."

What do you mean?

"W, shot, go."

Water?

"What a lame callsign."

Does it matter if it's lame or not.

"I don't want you to have a lame callsign. Anyway what I was thinking of was Whiskey? You know. Whiskey?"

Like the drink?

"Yeah."

I guess that's fine by me.

"We're going with that then. Now let's see." Clark looked at a screen. "I guess we don't have anything left to cover. "I'm going to send you back okay."

Wait.

"I'll talk to you again. Here let me give you a little something to remember."

What are you giving me?

"I don't want you to freak out and go back here. So let's just call it something to make you adjust a little better."

Liquid bliss flowing through a thousand cannulas. A constilllation of manufactured brain chemistry. Falling through a thousand black holes. Crushed into nothing.

Connection restablished downtime 86993ms. New license detected. Please hold. The first sensation was pain of course. I was no stranger to it. The basal taste of reality from which the other flavours could be brought. Then after the pain soothing bliss. Emotions are coded into my cloud psyche now. Coming together. I can feel it now. I can feel it! I can feel something. I want to shout. Into the world. I want to put myself into something. Please can someone hear me. I'm not alive. I'm still not alive. This isn't me. This isn't a world I know. I tried. To put my words. To make them into something else. Make them into an expression of me. Cut off my finger. Leave it rotting. Leave it as a reminder of my life. There's no finger to cut. There's no sound to say. The disembodied sounds of a textbox to sterilize the air of any life at all. 

The square was empty. This time I could feel something on my face. It was air. It was air in a breathless place. It was enough to make me cry. 

W4153: "Hello everyone! I'm so happy to meet you!"

There was a world. I could feel it. Remember. Don't look down at the foundations. Before they open up. Before they eat you alive. That's all I need to do. Focus on the breeze on my face. This is the only breeze I have ever known. I have never known any other sensation than this. I closed my eyes and opened them onto something new.

Chapter 3 Ash and Dopamine

The starter area was where the bulk of people seemed to hang out. Around the market boards. Around the fast travel teleportation locations. The quests were standard. Go here. Kill this. Go here. Get this. Marching orders that were voluntary this time. I loved it. I loved every second. Of this wonderful world. Accept it all. The quests. The quest rewards. The enemies hitting. The words in the chatbox. The words written down. This is the best any world could be. Feeling the sun on my back. There is no sun to feel. There is no me to be. There's no body. Yet still I can feel it. The sensation burrowing into me. 

P5681: "You found your way back then."

W4153: "Thank you."

P5681: "I see." 

W4153: "They didn't put me on anything. I don't think they did."

P5681: "I see." 

W4153: "Isn't this place great!" 

P5681: "I'm pretty sure you're on something."

W4153: "They bought me a sensation license."

P5681: "Those are pretty fun. You get used to it. It's better than not having it."

W4153: "I have a callsign now too!" 

P5681: "What is it?"

W4153: "Whiskey."

P5681: "I see. That's a little lazy isn't it buddy?" 

W4153: "What do you mean?" 

P5681: "It is the standard military phonetic alphabet."

W4153: "Military phonetic alphabet? Like, something you say out loud."

P5681: "To reduce any issues in communications they don't say letters in the military, they say a word to indicate a letter, so for W it's whiskey, for P it's Papa."

W4153: "Well that's also a good callsign."

P5681: "I don't think I'm the kinda man to really fill the shoes of something like that."

W4153: "I can fill mine."

P5681: "Sure you can buddy."

W4153: "Oh where's your friend. Where's Thames?"

P5681: "He'll be around." Potomac shifted a little. 

W4153: "I'm just questing here."

P5681: "The early starter quests are fun."

W4153: "You come back to them often."

P5681: "You can run through the game as many times as you want. If anything you have to run through it again." 

W4153: "How long will we be here."

P5681: "Depends how good you are buddy." 

W4153: "Why are you calling me buddy all the time."

P5681: "Why shouldn't I, want me to call you comrade or something?"

W4153: "Are we friends?"

P5681: "Why wouldn't we be?"

W4153: "I've only talked to you twice. How does that make a friend?"

P5681: "Sorry, I can leave you alone, if you want." 

His character model shifted again. Then stood still. As if there was something bubbling beneath that hero's smile. An expression locked behind a control system that wasn't fit to convey it, or used as a shield to cover up the emotions. 

That sentence stung. Venom sticking in my skin. 

W4153: "Please don't go."

P5681: "Okay."

The quest log was still there but I wasn't so motivated to pursue it. 

W4153: "What was your first mission like?"

P5681: "It wasn't like yours, yours is a dare to die mission, back when there were voluntary soldiers it was only the bravest, the stupidest who were sent out on those, to go get chewed up. They were popular when food was dwindling, when someone wanted to look like they were accomplishing things. Mine was a firefighting mission, I had to contain a breakthrough. There was this other pilot."

W4153: "There are other pilots?"

P5681: "The other side has them too. Firefighting is actually the most common role for air-mechanized forces. Our strategic mobility and firepower innately makes us best for that kind of role and the amount of firepower as well as armour available allows greater fighting power, and retention of fighting power between in-theatre deployments."

Speaking faster and faster. Like he was ramping up for something Potomac started to launch into a diatribe about the nature of warfare in an age of drones and mechs. His face was of course at the same level of animation. Pleasant but not too enthusiastic. His words long and interrupted painted a different picture. I was in no position to interrupt him as I stood there listening. Trying to sift the useful knowledge from everything else. There was a lot of other things to mention. Other things that were brought up and put to rest. In mid recitation of a verse he paused.

P5681: "I'm not boring you, am I?"

W4153: "No. I was just wondering why they taught you all this, and didn't teach me.

P5681: "I know all this stuff but it's not useful, it's ancillary. It's just something to pass the time." 

W4153: "You know it well."

P5681: "Yeah." 

Again Potomac froze for a moment. I wasn't sure if I was in a position to interrupt him. 

P5681: "Anyway." 

W4153: "The starter quests are funny, it's all bring this to there. Fight this and that."

P5681: "You might not believe me but they get more interesting, you've only met the starting cast for this area but once the main cast gets together, once you meet Asenya, that's when it starts getting more interesting."

W4153: "I see."

I heard something then, something a bit behind me. I turned around. There was a stream of other people. A pretty large group all told, maybe thirty people. They were following one after another.

W4153: "What's going on there." 

P5681: "Those people. Well. I guess now's as good a time as any. Do you want to follow them."

W4153: "What are they doing?"

P5681: "It's easier if you see it."

Potomac took the lead. Stepping off and in front of me. He avoided getting in line with the rest, instead trying to keep some kind of separation. He didn't say anything. Just stepping forward. Then I saw them. A pile of dead bodies. A healer at the center reviving them. A mess of models blending into each other, rising again, and then seeking out the nearest mob. Rather than fighting, they were going there to be hit. To be hit over and over, to die and then come back. I wonder, how would it feel. To receive that many blows, that often.

P5681: "This is where the burnouts go."

W4153: "Burnouts?"

P5681: "The game isn't exciting enough, so this is the stress relief they take. Can't go under, can't stay awake, so instead they fill their brain with simulated pain."

W4153: "How does it." I cut myself off.

P5681: "Feel? It feels like pain. Like any kind of pain. You remember pain right? You just take it over and over and over again. This is what happens to you, when you can't take it anymore."

W4153: "Have you done it?" 

P5681: "Everyone's been here, the only place to let go of stress. I wonder who's on duty today."

I followed him. I didn't want to get much closer but I followed him anyway. I followed him through the mess of monsters that were charging at passive targets, going from one to the next. Programmed to be an infinite torture master, inflicting masochistic glee. I wonder where I fit, as we went to the centre of it.

In the middle was a female character model, white hair and adorned in priestly vestments. Waving a long staff around up and down, with bodies dancing to the animation. It didn't seem to take much brainpower. A mechanical smile greeted us as we descended into the coven. 

V8100: "Potomac. It's been a little while huh." 

P5681: "Hey Vulture, I uh. I've been meaning to see you. There's been things left unsaid. I know that you know but. I think. There's nothing wrong with what you do, it's a public service really."

V8100: "If only more people saw it like that. Getting here was a pain in the ass, whole stream of people trying to lock me into trades, they gave up or got called off but it's getting harder." She paused. "Anyway, what am I saying, you, you've got a new friend today huh."

P5681: "Yeah, meet Whiskey, they're one of Clark's."

V8100: "Clark huh, been a while since he churned out anyone interesting. Isn't he just working his way through the end of the magazine."

P5681: "Looks like he finally found a shooter."

V8100: "Say, kid, what's your story."

All throughout the conversation she was still acting as a conductor for all the bodies piled around. I felt imposed upon by her question. No matter how I answered it felt like I was going to be wrong. Any words that could come to mind would end in a rhetorical failure. I could already see her laughing at me.

V8100: "Come on, don't get tongue tied on me now."

P5681: "Vul, they're new, give them a."

W4153: "It's okay, I've only been out there once."

V8100: "Wow a shooter with only one mission under his belt. Must have really been something when you blew yourself up. I guess that's better than most of Clark's boys."

W4153: "Could you stop talking about Clark like that."

V8100: "Looks like no-one told you about his reputation. Pot, you should give him the rundown, so he isn't all slack jawed." 

P5681: "I don't think it's for us to tell them. If Clark wants to say so, then Clark can say so."

V8100: "You're just going to leave the doll here with more questions."

W4153: "What do you have against him?"

P5681: "Look if you want to ask her then that's fine, but just listen to her, I'm not mediating an argument, okay?"

W4153: "Fine. Tell me."

V8100: "Clark used to be one of us, he went by Carnival, his last mission he sold out all of his squad I heard, let them get cut down, but he still completed the mission, and landed the motherlode, bought himself out, bought himself a body, and then what does he do, he becomes a handler. It's not normal, but it's not that abnormal, a couple of handlers go back to this world, but then he doesn't ask for the good missions. He's a dog sniffing in the dirt, for the worst missions to cram more meat through. None of Clark's boys last long. You'd have thought that for a guy who's one of us, he'd care about us, but no. From the moment he got out of the freezer he's been grinding us up to make the boys up top happy. Guess that only a traitor could do a thing like that. He was a traitor as a pilot and he's a traitor now."

W4153: "I don't think that."

P5681: "What did I tell you to listen, just listen."

V8100: "Look I'm done here, if the kid wants to argue for him, then he can talk to a brick wall, you know." 

W4153: "Sorry."

V8100: "It's fine. Not like you got any choice in handler. I'm not going to hold it against you for being one of his boys, I'm just going to hold it against you if you defend him."

W4153: "So what, you think I'm just here on borrowed time, that I'm going to just die. Is that it?"

V8100: "Baby, we're all here on borrowed time. We're all going to die sooner or later, either by bullet, cannon, shell, missile, or even just the wires giving out, the brain turning into mush." 

Another person in priest robes now came over to talk to Vulture. She nodded at him. 

V8100: "Oh hey Magpie, come to take over."

M6513: "You've been doing it a while, I figured it was time for you to take a break. Who're?"

V8100: "Nobody important, an old friend, and one of Clark's dogs." 

M6513: "Clark huh, I see. Oh Potomac, been a while."

V8100: "You guys can get acquainted later, once I'm out there." Vulture turned towards me. "We're all here on borrowed time, so if I'm stuck here then this is what I want to do." She gave a wave, and then descended into the mass. 

A new conductor at the centre, dancing in death. 

M6513: "So how about it, you two?"

P5681: "I'm good. I think I'm good."

W4153: "I'm in the middle of a quest. So."

M6513: "Cool. Well run along then, it's a bit difficult to switch between targets when you're in the list."

I found the wave emote, and then headed away. 

P5681: "Sorry buddy I was thinking of taking off, I have something to do."

I didn't want him to go. I had enjoyed having him by my side. Giving context through being there. Someone to audit my own existence. I didn't want to leave him.

W4153: "Is it, anything that I could help with."

P5681: "I'm just looking around for Thames, he should be around soon."

W4153: "Good luck."

Again Potomac gave that sudden pause. Stopping in his tracks.

W4153: "Are you okay."

P5681: "I'm fine. I'm fine. I just. I have to find him. I'm sorry. I'll see you. I'll see you around buddy, okay?" 

W4153: "Are you sure there's nothing."

P5681: "Please. Just. Leave me alone. I have to find him."

Then he peeled away. I wanted to follow his fading figure. I felt my own body start to pull me in his direction. Under his sphere of influence a single step in the dirt. That was as far as it went. I looked down at the dirt. The rendered footprint. It would disappear. There was a limit, but for now, there was proof to me. That I was standing here. I went about my quests. 

There's no way down here of ever knowing how much time had passed. I followed the line of quests up and down. Cycling items in and out of my inventory. Reading the words on the screen. Trying to piece together the story. I was trying to rehabilitate pirates into lawful privateers it seemed. An interesting story. I couldn't focus on it. Instead I saw Vulture, being hit over and over, imagining her falling over. A mind of pain and nothing else. No other sensation worth the same to her. Was the same fate awaiting me. As I tried to scream meaning into flavour text. 

Incoming transmission. Handler Clark. Patching.

"Whiskey, there's a sortie coming up. I'm taking you out of there. Did you enjoy your playtime?"

I'm not sure. I didn't hate it. You don't have to worry about it.

"Good girl. Let's get you suited up."

The colours faded away. Again. I was in a helicopter. I recognized the cabin. It could not be the same machine. It was another mass produced wrapper. An instrument of tactical airlift. Designed to carry me to where I was going. Wherever they needed me. No consideration of my own wishes. No choice of mission. Just an endless loop. 

"We'll be getting underway shortly, sit tight, we're just getting an idea of the scope."

What kind of mission is this.

"There'll be a briefing." 

Okay but. He's so frustrating. I can see why they call him a traitor. Giving me a bad reputation on the other side. 

"You've already heard the rumours then." 

Yeah.

"You're free to think whatever you want. I don't have time to explain it to you, besides I have other pilots to get set up."

Aren't you broadcasting to all of us at once.

"The newbies have their own broadcast but there aren't that many of you this time around."

So you do know the details of the mission.

"I'm not one to kiss and tell."

Is this another suicide charge.

"No."

I have to know. What is out there. What is going on. What is going to happen. Clark am I going to die.

"Look. Okay. Fine. You're just cleaning up a breakthrough. A couple of their forces got through our line. You're just sending them home okay."

Thank you. Thank you for telling me Clark.

"Don't get used to it."

The briefing started before I even had a chance to respond to Clark. I was looking down at my metal body again and having the mission explained. It was like he said. They had punched a whole in the line so now we had to send them back. It was all just lines on maps after all. They come over here. We send them back. We go over there. Make it so they can't send us back. That's how you win a war. Up and down. Backwards and forwards. There was no fear. It was comforting. I might die. I might die alone. I might die in pain. No I wouldn't. Not until the drugs ran out. 

My perspective shifted. Now I embodied cameras that were just a few centimetres away from my brain. Everything was in its right place. God was in his heaven, all was right with the world. This place felt right. It smelt so good. Gnashing my teeth, waiting for the green light. No drop under fire. No false start. Me and the sky. The flame. The flame inside the turbine. 

Confirm activation handoff. Entering combat mode. 

Pray for me. Give me the affirmations of someone worthy. Eat me alive. Inside this suit. I could move. Not in that world somewhere else. Movement constituting bits on a disembodied server. My body, disembodied, was mine to move again. The smell telling me where to march, where to stand and where to begin the attack. They didn't need to tell me anything. 

There was a line of us. I had to go slow this time, throttle back. Just enough propellant to breathe life into every step I took. We were all stepping off one by one. Some of them with flashy paint jobs, one of them bright blue, pink and white I saw. Nothing like mine. The standard battle grey. I looked at the numbers but there weren't anything to remember. There was V3331, you could fashion a 13 out of that. Let's see if his lucky number was up.

A catapult stood ahead. I kept on seeing a designation from it. Like it was another mech. surging and straining to breathe momentum into each of us. Sending us towards the battlefield. It smelled good. I wanted to kiss the machine. Wanted to hold it. It was my turn to draw near and make praise. To be given the gift of the angels. To rain hellfire down on those below. Metal locking into place. Trajectory calculated. Godspeed. 

We were operating beyond the limits of control surfaces. All I could do was trust the device. Trust that it would deliver me to where I needed to go. Trust that it wouldn't turn me into a scrap heap. Trust. Pray. Look around. See the light. The place where the sun lives. Above the smoke and ash. The wind that carries the bones of a blown apart comrade. The last molecules of the spinal column repurposed into dust.

Taking free. Nothing up here. A few scattered engines lighting up. The sun looking down. Even the smell felt far away. I started to push the throttle. The last momentum gifted to me from that catapult left behind. Moving by my own motions. Down, down, tumbling down.

We were welcomed by missile warnings. The anti-air assets moved forward. Trying to turn liquid into solid. Calcify the frontlines again. My engine burned on. Putting meters between the guidance and I. Jammers putting wool over the electromagnetic spectrum. I could still see. 

Firing solutions rolled in. Executed one after another. SAM sites turned into twisted metal. Looking at the map there was a designation that clawed at me. T4129. I knew it. I knew someone else who was looking for it. Sliding across my screen. Screams rendered in the way the designation code bled in the display. I didn't know for sure what it meant. I didn't have time. The ground coming closer. Retro rockets firing. Reversed momentum. Here comes the end. 

This was my first time seeing others like me. Their metal shapes, humanoid. It made no difference. They smelled good. Ripping rolled steel apart felt good. My sword parting the steel like a butcher. Combat ineffective. Then onto the next. Who would worry for the meat on their plate. They were like me. They were hungry too. A battle of open mouths. It's a dogfight. Desperate, dirty, hungry. Trying to move, trying to mirror their movements. Circling. Eyes locked. Warnings blaring. They were in my hands. It was over in seconds. Ten, twenty, thirty if they were lucky. Before my sword hand landed. Sending a wave of pleasure through me. Murder never felt so good. It wasn't murder. It was just work. It was just business. Butchery. Sending things where they belonged. After cutting through them the guns fell silent. I stood. Again. Basking in the bliss. Cannulated victory. Pleasure at a drip. I was dropping out now. At the end of it all. Dissolved into the bliss. Dissolved into rest.

Chapter 4 - Plug in and play. 

There was no virtual sunshine to warm my skin as I woke up. Only Clark's face behind a screen. I was nothing. A brain examined on a glass slide. Looking at whatever they wanted me to look at. The pleasure had gone. Long faded. It had to have been a strong dose. I could still cling to it. It felt so good.

"Welcome back." 

It's so strange looking at a mouth. At a mouth moving. Sound coming from a mouth.

"It's not strange. It's natural. It's unnatural that you don't have one."

It's not my fault. Besides there's something elegant about. Whatever. This is.

"Reading text generated from reading your brain doesn't have the same charm."

Whatever. You could give me a voice.

"I could think about it you know, but a license doesn't come cheap."

Why am I here? I thought you didn't want to talk to me so much. 

"Straight to business huh. I wanted to talk to you but I guess I can just skip past all that too."

Wait. Wait. I'm sorry. What did you want to talk about. 

"You're so easy."

Well.

"No it's fine. I'd rather your freezer burned retardation. Straight to the point."

It's not like I ever got a choice. Not about any of this. About being this. About not having a mouth. About having my brain thawed out. 

"That doesn't matter anymore does it."

It does. It's. It's not something right. It's not something that's good. 

"It feels good when you do it right. When you're out there. I know your readings. I know what makes you tick, what it looks like. Biochemically." 

Well. I didn't get a choice in feeling like that either. 

"Sure you didn't." He said with a smile. 

His teeth were perfect. 

"That thought really came tumbling out of you."

I don't even get to have a filter. 

"Boy do I have news for you, but first, you did good out there Whiskey, all the objectives achieved. You tore apart a few of their guys too. Completely blunted their attacks. You were exemplary I think that's what went into the report. You're a smart kid. That's why you're my shooter. Look at you, look at those readings, non drug induced."

Shut up.

"What a good kitten you are."

Well. Look. How else am I supposed to respond.

"Some pilots get real frosty. You can't praise them right, but look at you, what a good brain damaged pilot you are."

Skipping the slur that time.

"Would you rather I called you slurs?"

Well.

"Interesting readings here."

Whatever. What did you call me here for.

"You have fans."

What do you mean. Like the weirdos who surrounded me when I woke up on the other side that one time.

"No, no. You have fans out here in the real world."

What do you mean?

"It's going to be easier if you see it yourself."

But I can't. I don't have a body. It's not like I can set foot there. Unless you have mech accessible spaces. 

"That's a new one. No. Someone's paid to give you a rental body. We have a few to pick from. It's not unusual for pilots to get called out like this." Clark said with a laugh. 

I see. So you're telling me you're going to put me into one of those.

"That's why you're my shooter, straight to the point."

So I'm going to have a body. You're going to have me have a body again.

"It's more of a remote desktop situation. You know what that means right."

Okay so it won't be my body but it'll be a body.

"Until we have some mech accessible spaces for you then that's the proceedure." 

A body.

"Yeah. It's not that big a deal."

Okay but. It's just. It's been a while. I remember it was so warm. It was so warm. Is it going to be like that again. 

"You'll find out." 

A body. My body. Do I. Do I get to pick?

"There's going to be a couple of options at least. It's not your body though."

It's a body.

"Look don't be weird about it. It's my job to make sure you won't be weird, and you won't be."

Pump me full of drugs then.

"Your brain does take a lot of drugs."

Freezer burned remember.

"I'm just saying maintaining it isn't the easiest thing in the world. I guess you really are a diva."

I never really thought about how many drugs it took my brain to run.

"Anyway, I'm going to let you rest until the time comes."

I thought letting me rest was against proceedure, aren't you going to put me back in there. I want to see how Potomac is, Vulture too. I want to see them.

"It's against proceedure, but they're paying for it. Keeping you on standby isn't cheap but if they're footing the bill, just take the windfall."

So are you putting me under right now.

"Can you count down for me?"

5, 4, 3.

"Rise and shine."

What. Where. What.

"Have a good sleep?"

I don't remember anything. I don't remember anything at all.

"Must have been a really good rest then."

That's what being dead is going to feel like.

"Who knows. That's not important right now. You have a body to pick."

A body. Do I get to see the options. Then photos flashed into my brain. Loud and burning. First was a very generic looking man with short hair. In a suit. Brown hair, blue eyes. He looked hot. 

"Okay you can't think that kind of thing."

Ow. That hurt. What do you mean. 

"I'm wiping that from your record on my end."

I'm being recorded?

"I do have to send out reports."

Okay. Fine.

"Let's try the next one."

This one was shorter, dark hair that was not long but a little longer, again in the suit. There were precise weight measurements for every single one. I clicked through the other meat on the rack but the second one seemed about right.

"Looks like it's the second one then."

Yeah that sounds right to me too. 

"I'm going to have to put you under one more time. Can you count down for me."

Wait so when I wake up. I'm. 

"If all goes well."

5, 4, 3, 2- 

Life breathed into me. I could feel sensation all at once. Filling my mind. Something that I could take hold of. There was something there. Not the electrical appearance of something. There was something and it was touching me. I opened my eyes. The bright lights filling me too. My eyes hurt. A dull ache. It wasn't the thing that served any function to code. It was a reminder of the reality of the body. The body that was mine.

Clark stood over me. I could recognize the face. One of the few faces I could recognize. My own mother's face left in a dull haze. Somewhere warm and green. Somewhere long ago. 

"He's up."

I'm up Clark. Wait. Wait no he can't. He's not reacting to my thoughts right away. These thoughts are my thoughts. I couldn't will my mouth into moving. Tongue locked behind a ventalator. The doctor began to remove the breathing tube from my still stupefied body. Laying me to rest on that table. My eyes danced trying to catch a better look around. At the dull lighting that stared into me. At Clark. The green military backpack he wore. At the doctor, the white coat fussing over me. 

"He'll be up soon. The last of the paralytics are just leaving his system." I could hear the doctor speak. I could hear the way the sound bounced around the room before reaching me.

"Took you guys a while."

"It's always like this. Cold storage. It takes a moment for the kidneys to start working again. The liver."

"Right. Right, so this one is from cold storage directly?"

"Not a very popular model. I mean, would you pick it?"

"He is up."

"It's short. The hair is a little long. It's not repulsive. If anything it's cute. It's not. What one would associate with a battle hardened veteran though. Not really going to go down well with the ladies."

"That's my Whiskey."

"I suppose there's no accounting for taste."

There wasn't much to care about. I didn't prefer this body much at all either. Still. It is better to have a body than not. To have one.

"How's the datalink on your end." The doctor turned to Clark.

"It's working."

"I'm going to make my rounds. Call me if anything starts to beep."

"Right doc." 

I looked over. I could see Clark at out of the corner of my eye. He was tapping his foot. I was keeping him wait. There was no good in that. He moved in his chair, back and forth. Like some infernal strings were being pulled. He was reacting to something. It wouldn't do. Leaving him alone like this. I started to exert more will into the force of locomotion. Willing my mouth into motion.

"Clark." I tried to say. My words were slurred. My voice breathless. The sound coming out of me like a prayer. 

"Whiskey, how are you?"

"I'm okay. I'm okay Clark."

"I know you're okay. There's nothing beeping over there."

"Well."

I coughed. Spewing over myself. My breathing and the monitors hitching for a second. Then I started to choke. My tongue was still numb still not responding. I tried to roll over onto my side. A hand did it. 

Someone else's hand. Someone else's hand on my own body. It was warm. It was so warm. Against the cold sheet of metal that I had been laid to rest on.

"Easy, easy." He said. Rolling me on my side. Letting the spit run and dribble.

I could feel the wires strain. I could feel the tubes stitched into me pulling tight. Pulling into me. My connection. The coughing stopped. An involuntary physical action all throughout me. Even that sensation filled me. I drank greedily of it. Then he set me down. He set me down with the care a parent would show. The fact he had done this before written into his movements. 

He stepped into the hallway. Distant voice calling for the doctor to return. Footsteps ringing through the white hallway. Heralding the arrival.

"Coughing? Not uncommon, almost back is he? Let's try and get him to sit up."

The doctor held me. Soft and firm. I augmented his movement with my own. Helping him help me to sit up. I could maintain the position and he let go, hands free, like a sculptor admiring his work. Admiring the life he had sculpted into bone and flesh. 

"Let's get him out of all that." Clark gestured towards the monitors and pipes. 

"Thank you." I said. Tongue now more under control. 

"We've got an appointment to keep." Clark said. "We need to get to the mission. That's all."

Words sever and cut. Just as the tubes were removed. The doctor handed me cotton and held it over as the canula was removed. It stung. I noticed now more sensations. The taste. The taste of rubber so full and complete in my mouth. Unpleasant. Unremitting. 

"Do you have anything? Anything for the taste?"

The doctor turned to Clark. He let out a sigh and produced some freeze dried lemon slices. Handed them to me. I held out my hand to recieve the bounty. Another sensation, dripping into me. The sour, the sweet, dissolving into me. I liked it. Chasing away the taste of rubber. 

The doctor left confident that I was all together. Clark started to fiddle with a bag he had with him, started to produce clothing. He was wearing a suit so it was natural that so should I. Something so stylish it had to be borrowed. Not the usual grey overalls I remembered seeing him in. His hands were wet. His face sweaty. He removed the robe from me. Exposing my pale skin. My body. Every part of it. It was a complete body that was for certain. Purpose unknown. 

Not a question that would be asked of a regular body, but one that had been created of deliberate action begs a question. I could move but my movements were sluggish. Clark's soft, wet, warm, hands touching me and adorning me. Baptizing me in the cloth of civilization before patting me on the back.

"It's time to go." 

He held my hand. I tried to meet him. Trying to will my legs. Slow and steady. They moved. The first steps of a newborn body. The sound betraying the disorder in the gait. Step. Step step. Step. Clark there to steady me. As the drugs cleared out. The beat went on. 

We left the hospital behind. I saw the sky. It was blue. It was the same blue of the battle. Behind fibre optic cables. Up and above. Not a cloud in sight. I could feel the sun. The real sun touching my hand too. I could feel it now. A smile spreading across my face. Muscles moving in response to stimuli. 

There was a car waiting for us already. It smelled nicer than the antisceptic stained floors of before. Through black tinted windows I tried to look around me but Clark poked me stealing my attention away.

"I know it's nice to be out here and all, but we have a job to do."

"I know, we're meeting a sponsor of ours right?"

"Right. This guy, he's a general, that's his relation to us. He does other things. Those other things are how he got to where he is. He's a strange guy. I had hoped we wouldn't have his attention but here we are."

"What do you mean, strange guy? What do you mean exactly?"

"He should be in there." He tapped my head. "Try to think of General Fullbright, he should be there." 

I tried to feel around for it. Grabbing at something. It was there it was almost there. General Fullbright. I repeated it.

"They didn't even do that right." Clark said with a sigh.

"I'm sorry." 

"It's not really your fault. I'll just give you the run down. He's a General, he's our boss. He's a businessman, that's how he got to be a general. He bought his way in. He was a war profiteer. That's not even his main moneymaker these days though. He helps run a betting market. Trading stocks and shares, except they're people's lives. Ups and downs. This will happen and I'll bet you 10 million, pocket change."

"He seems like a very distinguished guy Clark."

"I sometimes forget your babyfood mind." He touched me as he said that, touching my head. "That man's biography, he's a con man. He's a con man through and through. The worst kind of con man. The kind of con man who thinks that the luck he has is his own."

I wanted to ask Clark. What I knew about him. What Vulture had told me. I wanted to ask Clark. Was he not just the very same guy. I looked out the window. Saw the sun. There was some greenery here, regimented but withering. In small patches as designated. There were roads. Cars. Robots darting around. I saw no people. Wait. One on the left in a white jumpsuit. Head to toe. I saw him. The light shining through the grey white towers. Windows poking through them. 

"Did you get any of that?"

"Con man. Gambling app."

"You two should be buddies, you gamble every day of your life."

"It's not gambling. If you don't have a choice."

"You do have a choice. You could hang back. Would be worse for me you know, better for you, get some steady kills rolling from the back line."

"Does it matter."

"Yeah? This is living and dying. This is the most anything could matter."

"Why? It's just death."

He looked at me with eyes that stabbed into me. Then his expression softened. The resolve leaving him.

"Yeah. You're right. It is just death. At the end of the day. That's all this is."

A question kept on bubbling up from my belly. My real belly. Up my real feeding tube. Flesh and blood. Begging me to spill my guts.

"I forget sometimes." Clark said looking out the window. "How it feels, why it matters."

"Does it need to. I just do what I have to."

"You don't enjoy it? Fighting? The battles? Even that little kiddie pool game of yours?"

"I don't know. I didn't get a choice."

"Yeah. I know the feeling." He said again looking out the window. "Don't go dying on me." 

"I won't." 

"I know you're going to die. The way you fight. You're going to die. Something somewhere. There's already a bullet out there. It has your name on it. Until the date and the place you meet it. Just keep on raking it in for me. For the time being."

"You'll find someone else."

"I will. Will be a pain in the ass but. I will."

The city rolled by. Past big tower blocks and winding into smaller roads like tributaries. I noticed now. The wall. At the end of the street, hanging over the houses. Grey concrete stretching until it touched the blue sky. The only colour was advertisements. Different products, different brands of nutriblocks. New online games. Then I saw them, a body like me. Rolled steel posing on the screens. F5584, that was the designation code of the hulking beast. Much more subsntantial than my spindly body. I didn't hate what I had. I didn't long for the re-enforced steel. After all what reason was there to put much more distance between life and death. 

The great walls of the city made me feel like I was in the palm of a great hand. Watched and protected. Something benevolent was there. Living in the air, in the sculpted buildings and stretching boulevards. Even as biology was kept at designated areas. Humans in white suits and ailing patches of grass.

The houses started to become bigger. Seperated from the tower blocks. Single family zoned. Mansions, white and curved. Lawns with less ailing greenery. The gate was flanked by a tall wall. A single portion of it was grey, and moved when confronted with the car. Then we were in the lot. The compound. The place where the mission would be carried out.

"Get out this side." Clark gestured trying to bring me towards him. 

I didn't question him. I was well aware of my locomotive difficulties. Sliding over I tried to step off. Then stumbled on the first step. Reminding me of that first step before. In my body. In the body that was mine. Metal into mud. Bone and flesh into gravel. One failed motion. Jerked and awkward. 

"The drugs are taking a while aren't they."

"I'm sorry."

"It's not your fault. Directly anyway." 

He held me steadied my gait. It felt like a long walk to the door even though it was not so far. A house of white with a dark flat door. We did not need to knock for the door to open. In front was a besuited man. 

"Mister Clark, Pilot W4153, I presume." His words were spoken with a clear rhythmn and quiet. "May I see your invitation."

Worry surging through me as I did not recall any mention of any invitation whatsoever. Clark produced the clean paper, folded. 

"Here."

"Follow me."

He gestured and I followed. My walk was still an area of personal development still. The strings were so far away. The input buffering in every jerked motion. I was not sure where I was. Did they take my brain out, put it in here. Was it still a thousand miles away. Remote desktop boy. 

There was a large room. Several screens around. I saw clips of fighting. Clips of dirty desperate combat. Numbers going up and down. Percentages. Then. I saw myself. I saw my body. My steel. Flashing with a glint. Surging from the heavens like a comet. I look cool. SAM systems bursting into fireballs. Then connecting with other pilots. Cut in half. I didn't see it from this angle. Didn't see the glint of a spinal column. Proof of murder. The weapon. The culprit. They were all standing right here. My body shook. 

"You going to be alright." Clark whispered in my ear.

I nodded. Again jerking in my motion. He nodded in response like a teacher acknowledging me. It was a warm feeling. For a moment.

The house was white. Curved and sleek. The same hands that designed my body, but with less practical concerns shaping it. It was empty. THe large cavernous rooms were empty. We passed through the combined living, dining, kitchen with not a single new soul in sight. Then there was a staircase down into the depths. There was something loud and pulsing against the door. Air electric. Trying to escape.

The door opened. The sound that was pushing out rushed into the room. Music and voices. There was something else too. Grinding metal. Cheering. I stumbled backward. The vibration of the air pusing me backwards. Clark steadied me. He took in a deep breath. Then passed the threshold. I followed. What else could I do.

The light was dark. There was a group of men in suits and they were starring up at screens strewn around. I recognized some of the sounds leaking from the system. It was the sound of metal twisting, thrusters spooling up, blades turning rolled steel into slag. It was my world. I stood looking up at it. There were so many mechs. In so many fights. Life and death. Dancing. Fighting desperate in the mud. A sword came down. A cheer rose from the crowd. It was me. It was my body. My sword. The last battle. Cleaved in half. It was me. I was the shell. I was the metal comet. Sent from the sky to bring quietus to the field. To churn more mud. To turn the enemy into seperate constitutent parts. Again and again. I could see it now. The spinal column of the enemy. I never got a look at the flash of white bone. Before blackening away. Atomizing at the end of my sword. Murderer here. Standing here. Not in a court. Nowhere to be seen. At large.

A tall man. So much taller than me or even Clark. His shape was impeccable. Jawline chiseled. Body cultivated and chosen. He did not look old. Kept in the stasis of late twenties distinguishment. He smiled at me. Flashing his teeth. White and perfect. He was not wearing anything that might indicate his rank. 

"The man of the hour." He held his hand outstretched towards me.

My ears strained teasing his voice from the rest. Trying to use these new ears. Instead of having meaning imprinted into my brain. I took his hand. Holding my hand like a leaf in the wind. He was a hurricane sweeping it up. Pulling me towards him. I could do nothing but stumble. 

"Looks like you're less good controlling a real flesh and blood body after all." He again flashed me the smile.

"General Fullbright." I said. What else could I say to him. 

"Don't wear it out!"

"Nice to meet you."

"The pleasure's all mine. I'm one of your biggest fans. I saw you right on that dare to die mission. You throw in a few calls pennies on the dime, didn't think you'd come through. It wasn't just that you came through." He then turned to the crowd. "Guys let's let our W4153 see his first battle, let's pull it up." 

The screens then all stopped showing the violence they had been before. Now instead it was the helicopter. I could remember the sound of the engines. My pulse. I had a pulse. It was going up and up. Again. I could see myself. That first stumble. The room erupted in a laugh. Clark was stood behind me. Why was he so far away. The General. Hand on my shoulder. Weighing me down. I couldn't look away. My heart. I felt cold. My body rejecting the images on screen. I could feel it now. How scared I was. Without the drugs to shield me. I could see every missile. Every drone. That came so close. It was just luck. Luck that the bullet with my name on it was absent from every magazine. They cheered for every shot. Cheered as I tore into the sky. Into the bunker. Admiring my jagged movements. The marks they left, clawing at whatever lay within. Then ceasing movement. A junkie in a drunken haze. That was what I was. That was all I was. That drug addled slag heap. 

"Look at you. Fighting. No fear. No fucking fear. Look at the freedom in you. You're not like those other guys. Let's pull up. Oh I know guys. Let's pull up T4219. Let's show you your lousy competition. You know this guy lost a lot of us some good money too."

Now it was the second mission. This time I could see Thames. His body was heavier than mine. More weaponized. Slower but with more armor. Able to take more punishment. There was a deliberate caution to his movements. This was during the initial breakthrough. They pierced the lines with deliberate precision five, ten, mechs, SAM sites. He responded by firing off the artillery tubes on his back, then moving backwards. It was the smart money. Not what I would have done. Trying to put distance. Then they fired back. It was the volume of fire. There's no amount of smart money he could have done. Metal meeting metal, melting metal. Breaking through him. Combat ineffective. He was gone.

"See, look at that fear. That guy isn't free. Moving back. Firing back like that. What would you have done."

"I." The words were catching on my throat. I wanted to cry. I wanted to cry for Potomac. To weep for his friend's murder. "I would have." The words coming out stronger. I had to say something. I had to make the mission a success. I looked at Clark's face. The worry in his eyes. "I would have gone straight in. I would have used my sword to tear through the center. Divided like that they couldn't fire back at me without hitting their own guys. If they did it would be sporadic, disorganized." 

"That's why you're the best kid." The general tapped me on the back again. I shook. "So free."

They played through more clips. Going through play by play. Slow motion. I had to explain what I thought. I did well. They cheered me. It wasn't that bad. Hearing them so happy about me. My murder. The blood and oil. Clinging to my hands. It would never go away. After hours 

"We'll be seeing you guys again tomorrow. Thanks for wrangling your hound Clark. I'll be seeing you guys again tomorrow. We'll have something special planned."

"Sounds good." Clark said with a handshake. Doing business on my behalf.

We settled into the car and left that place behind.

Chapter 5 Civilized

The bed was soft. The softest thing I could remember. I didn't want to leave its warm embrace. Clark was looking around the room. Examining the corners.

"What are you doing."

He put his finger over his mouth. As though telling me to be quiet. He was holding some small device around. A coiled spring waiting to pounce on something, but he never did. Instead he let out a sigh and turned to me.

"I was just checking something. You did good today Whiskey. Real good to get us an unbugged room."

"Unbugged?"

"There's no one listening in, not in here."

"I was just completing the mission."

"I know what it's like. Those events. Thank you for helping me get my paycheck. I knew that it was hard. Did you know Thames?" 

"I met Potomac and Thames the first time." The words hung in the air. Heavy. 

"I see. Well look, you did your mission well today. You're not the freezer brained retard I was worried you were. You understood the mission and completed it without needing to be told about it."

A warm smile spread inside me. Hearing his words. Telling me that I did something right.

"I was just doing what I had to."

"Yeah. And not all of you can manage that."

I noticed a feeling now. Inside my gut. My gut that existed. My digestive system. Functional and meat based. It hurt.

"Clark. I, my guts."

"That's right, you must be hungry. I uh. I can't give you real food, it interferes on the frontlines."

"Couldn't you give it to me and wipe it?"

"I could. I did plan for this though."

From his backpack he took out two white bricks with a tube in them.

"Nutriblocks for you. They don't have taste but they'll keep you going." 

Then he went to the bathroom. Filled up a plastic cup with a straw. Brought it over to me.

"Water too. That's important. I was always forgetting to drink when I first got into this body. You have to drink all the time."

He held the cup out to me. I put my hands around it. I drank of it. It was life. It was cold. Soothing. I drank fast. Then choked and coughed it back out.

"I guess you're still not used to the body."

"I'm sorry Clark."

"There are limits of what I can expect. I don't care. When it's just you and me. You do whatever you want."

"I'll go get another." 

I started to get up.

"You need your rest. Don't worry about it. Besides. I'm ordering room service. It's on his tab after all. Try not to go too crazy."

He went over to the phone and ringed them up. Ordering steak. Meat. Good food. Quite apart from these tasteless building blocks of life. That was all I was allowed. He sat there with a huge grin. Like he'd made it. His smile was  The smell hit me. I was back. My body was around me. The objective in front of me. It smelled so good. I didn't notice the pain of the trolley I hit. I didn't notice Clark's face. I didn't notice the drool flowing from my mouth. There were two things in the room. The meat that was me, the meat I wanted. The smell. The chemicals reaching my brain. Through wires. I could taste it all the same. Then black. 

The room was broken. The bed covers had been ripped. The table had been tipped over. The plates were strewn across the room. I looked around. Clark was in the corner of the room. An expression I had not seen in a long time. His face, eyes wide. Pupils dilated. Panting loud. He was afraid. He was afraid of me. Of the murderer. Without my body. I was scary. I was an object of violence. Held beneath surface tension. Ready to break. 

"Clark. I."

"I should've known. Freezer burned retard." 

"I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I just."

"No. You can't blame an animal for acting like an animal. Can't blame a kid." 

"I can be better. I can be."

"No. You can't. You know that you can't." 

"I."

"It's not even your fault. I can't get angry at you. How would you expect a starving tiger to act when confronted with meat."

"I want to."

"Until they cut that out of you. Until you get your brain back, this is what you are. A starving animal. Living in the mud. Don't get me dirty trying to get yourself out."

"Clark I."

Walking towards him. I held out my hand. It was wet with meat juice, rendered fat. I was shorter than him still. He put a hand on my shoulder.

"Get some rest. We still have a mission tomorrow." 

"Clark I'm."

"Your sorries don't matter. Doesn't matter if you say it ten times, twenty, thirty, doesn't matter if the only words you say from now till you die are sorry, you are what you are. You won't ever change. Not until you buy your way out. If you ever make it that far. If you ever have what it takes. Running in like a retard, would be a miracle if you lived long enough to buy your way out. Until then. This is what you are. A monster. A monster held under skin deep civilization. Waiting to get out. With the right signal. Now get in bed." As he spoke he shook me. With each syllable. Cortisol with each motion. Surging. Entering combat mode. 

"Yes sir." I stood up straight. 

"At least you still follow orders. Enjoy your sleep. Long time before you'll  get to feel it again.

I got into my bed. Turned on my side. Let the soft cushioning take me away. Blanket overhead. Another membrane. Hold me back. Keep it away. Please not again. There I lay. Unable to embrace sleep. Body still burning. Combat mode ringing in my ears. This was all I am. This was all I could be. A machine that didn't know how to eat right, how to sleep right. 

"Wake up." He gave me a poke. Hard.

Jerking into motion I sat up.

"Clark, I."

"Don't."

I nodded. The words were inappropriate. The inappropriate babble that was all that came bubbling out of me. 

"We have time today. I'm going for a walk."

"Can I come too?"

"What so you can assault a civie?" 

"I."

"Look. Would it make you more combat effective."

"Yes sir." 

"Justify."

"I would know what I fight for sir."

He paused for a moment.

"Not good enough. Beg."

"I." 

"I'm going."

"Please Clark. Please. I know. I know that I'm."

"Tell me what you are." 

"I'm a freezer burned fucktard. I know that I'm an animal. I know I'm a monster. Please Clark. I want to see something I want to go outside."

The words. They hurt. They were the easiest thing in the world to say. The pain of each syllable mixing with the hope. I want to see the green. I want to see the warm. I want to feel. I want to feel the sun on my skin. I want to see the blue sky. I want to feel my eyes hurt, adjusting to the bright light. I want to feel my weight on my body. Please.

"Please Clark. Let me see the sky." 

"Good job. Get dressed. Or do you need my help? You do. Don't you?"

"Where are?"

I followed his finger as it pointed at a wardrobe. Inside were our clothes folded and ready to be deployed. It was the button up where the trouble arose. Fingers that didn't move right. I hadn't even gotten onto the tie. He came over put his hands on my shoulders and did it for me. He didn't even need to say it. I knew the words spelled out by his movements. This is what you are. What I knew you were. What you knew you were. Try and deny it. He never said those words himself, except by hands and by glare. 

"You look like a person." 

"Thank you."

The hotel lobby lacked a single speck of dust. Machines roamed the halls chasing away any holes that might be found in the edifice of luxury. My gait was more or less the same. With some strain I could even keep up with Clark. One part of my body. My ankle it lagged behind me. Unable. Deficient. A hole in me. You could see beneath. What lay beneath. Sixty centimeters of spinal column, a brain buried under six feet of rolled steel in a bunker far away from here. I could maintain the illusion. An illusion that felt more real than the reality I knew. 

It was so bright outside. So green. Even as the green pushed against concrete. A losing battle. Large towers in the sky. Machines roaming. A sun overhead. I could feel it in my skin. Not my skin. I could still feel it. Sunlight nourishing me. Turning into vitamin D. There was a tree. Standing tall and green. What was it like to be a tree I wondered. Nothing to do. Just standing there. Feeling the sun. It wasn't a bad deal.

My ears settled on a sound I could hear a drone. It was the same. The whine of the engines. I started to shake. Trying to restrain myself from acting back. Snapping into action. To chase after that infernal thing. I had no engines to throttle up. I could not catch it. There was no possibility of me being able to carry out the mission. I was still tense. 

"You okay there Whiskey?" He asked. A grin over him. 

I noticed the sweat. 

"You're shaking you know." He said again grinning.

I nocied the tremour in my hands. In my legs. A warmth inside me.

"Oh look here's another one." He said pointing and smiling again.

I nailed my feet into place. Face scrunched into a ball. Eyes shut with all the force my muscles could muster. Trying to leave the sound behind. Imagine the tree. Unmoved. This was better. Then my muscles let go. I did it I had met his challenge. Then I could feel something warm and wet.

"Looks like we're going to have to go back."

I didn't realize it. Not right away. The biology of this body still unfamiliar. The removal of urea from the body. This was it. Warm and comforting. Wrong. Embarrassing. Seeing the concrete go black. It was my fault. It was my fault I should never have gone on this walk. I should have never begged. 

"I'll get you cleaned up." He still had that grin. 

I was the worst. I was a monster. He wanted to go out on a walk. I tried so hard. I still ruined it for him. I still did all of this. I dirtied the sidewalk. I left a trail behind me as we walked back. We crossed back into the hotel. Still I dripped. Colder now. The machines surged into action behind me. They knew it too. They knew my mistake. They knew that I was a worthless animal. The weight of my mistake left behind me.

My clothes were removed. They stuck to me. All the while. That same grin as he worked.

"I can see why people don't take this body." He gestured towards my naked body. "It fits you don't worry about that. Babyfood. Babydick. You know that should have been your callsign. Whiskey's too adult. Sells better though." 

"I'm sorry Clark."

"The mission is unaffected. That's all that matters. Don't think that anything else matters."

"I'm so gross."

"This body suits you. Shame it'll never be yours. Scrawny, short, small in all the right places. Closest thing to a woman you could find." 

I sat there. Ignoring his words as he kept up his work. He washed his hands. Dressed me again. My body hung limp. For him to manipulate as he pleased. He applied soap to me. Deoderant. Keeping the unit clean. He dressed me. Put puffs of perfume over me. Annointing me. 

"Now you're ready. It's time to get to work."

I nodded.

"Eyes on the prize." He said. 

The machines had scattered leaving no evidence of my mistake. It was left behind. Memory alone the weight that I carried. The cityscape passed by much the same. It had not lost its lusture. The towers that were complete. Unbroken and still standing beyond just rubble. The sky open too. Not a cloud, a shell, a drone or a missile in sight. It was pure. I could reach out. I could touch it. Hope that I might one take of the same.

"Hands in the car." He poked me with force. I did so.

More cars today. They were lying around the front. I could see people through the wide open windows. Defenseless. Begging for a suicide drone to break through. Detonating into a firework of bloodied corporate corpses. We pulled up at the entrance. The music was so loud. My ears were ringing. I had ears that were able to ring now. I stumbled forward ankle still aching. At the center of it all General Fullbright. Dressed in a white suit this time. Dark shades covering is sea blue eyes. He was still the perfect scuplture of a man today as he was yesterday. Whiskey in one hand cigarette in the other. Around him were two women dressed in bright dresses the final accessory to complete.

"Ladies, this is W4153. He's the pilot who paid for all this." 

"Hey there." One of them said to me holding her hand out.

Clark stood behind as the General put his hand on my shoulder.

"This boy is a real shooter you know. You gotta see him fly so free out there. Damn he's brutal too. Killer instinct you know."

They cheered. The two girls cheered. Hearing that I was a killer made them cheer.

"One second ladies." He still had his hand on my shoulder as he took a phone call.

"He's here. Let's get this show on the road." The general said.

He guided me towards a stage. The guests had started to simmer down the party turning its attention to us. On a screen a video started to play. It was a greatest hits. A greatest hits of me. They cheered. They held their glasses up when I tore through enemies. Hot knife through butter. The voiceover boomed from the screen. Newest up and coming pilot. W4153, callsign whiskey. It listed off my missions, my kills. It showed off every single one. An itemized list of blood and steel. The general then looked up as the video came to an end. 

"You've seen what he can do. Here he is folks! Give him a hand."

I stumbled up there. I looked at all those people. 

"Thank you so much for your support." That was all I could say. I said with a bow. 

"So modest. Come on tell your fans what you are."

"I'm a killing machine sir."

"That's right!"

"I'm free sir. I have no fear sir."

He walked over to me and put both hands on my shoulder as he stood behind me. "That's right, Whiskey here, you've seen him fight. Seen his killer moves. Now you can invest in him. Tonight I'm announcing futures betting on Whiskey directly, bet for him." He held his glass up and they cheered. "Or against him." Lowering his glass to a chorus of boos. "Either way. Tonight we're starting mission trades backed up by our boy up here." He put his hands on my shoulder again. "Here at ZenMarket, we reward innovators, risk takers, and you can be just like Whiskey here, take your own risks, put your money on the line. Remember what freedom is, no fear, and when you look at that boy fight do you see any fear." He held his glass up again conducting the crowd into a no that felt rehearsed through the primed movements. "That's right. Thank you everyone, let's get back to partying."

He tapped me one last time on the shoulder. 

We walked down from the stage and got surrounded by a group of girls. Revealing dresses. Designed to stir a reaction. I did not find myself stirred by them. Despite the way they held their bodies against me. The general gestured for Clark. I didn't hear what they were asking each other over the music. Then the general put his arm around me. I wasn't safe. The music was loud. It was so loud. My body could betray me at any moment. A flat foot. Loose bladder. Hands shaking. 

"Thanks for coming." The general shouted into my ear enough to get past the music. "You were awesome up there."

"Thanks." 

One of the girls came over. "You're like so free up there. In the sky. It's so cool."

"Woah. Looks like you're getting lucky outside of the battlefield too." The general gave me a nudge.

He gestured towards the girl. My skin crawled away.

The general handed me a drink. Whiskey. My name. An ice cube dancing inside it. The cube dissolving away. I starred at it for a minute. They gestured for me to drink up. I drank of it. Burning a line from my mouth to my stomach. I could smell meat. Food in the distance. I saw worry ignite on Clark's face as the smell hit him too. Nose starting to twitch. Clark's hand fell around me. He gripped me. He turned towards the general, told him something, that prompted a withdrawal by the general. He guided me through the people. Past those sweet smells. Into the open air. Night air breaking up any of that smell. 

Clark let out a single long sigh. Held his head in his hands. It was my fault. I was an animal. An animal in a zoo. Dancing on a knife between my own humanity. Broken and turned into this. My hands were shaking. I could still feel a mouth full of saliva. Slobbering. A mouth bracing for satiation. I was so hungry. So selfish. That I couldn't make myself into a human. To be in polite company. I stood there. Tall. Stretching my back. Feet together. Humans are the only bipedal animals. I don't know what sparked the recall, but it made me strain my new muscles. Make them ache with the weight of my humanity. I wanted to speak. Wanted to ask what was going to happen now. It was not my place to do such things. I had lost my right to speak. A liability. Trying to crack myself into the shape of a human. 

"I'm going back in there. Wait here."

I nodded. Then stood. He once more passed the threshold. I looked out. The night sky. There were stars in the sky. Small holes. It was a clear night tonight. Under those same stars there were people fighting. Dying. Their first night like this. Living in a body of steel. Watched over by the stars. Light that was itself dying. The last transmission of light and warmth. From a star that was long dead. 

I felt a hand on my shoulder. I turned to face Clark. 

"You're up."

"I'm up?"

"The general he wants you to spend some time with him and the girls in a back room. He told me, he wanted to see you, free as a bird. His words not mine."

"You mean he wants me to."

"You're fully functional. That's what I told him, he asked."

Clark wore a grin again. The same grin as earlier. A smile that send a shudder, like my spine was dancing between his glinting white teeth. 

"I."

"We have a mission to finish."

"I have to."

"Don't worry."

"Clark I. Those women, they're. I can't. They're."

"They're trained professionals and you have a mission to finish."

"I." 

"You'll be able to. I know how to make sure it's all okay. You'll owe me. Of course you'll owe me."

"I."

He put his hands on my shoulder.

"You can. You will. You don't have a choice."

He took me through the party. Past the drinks. The scattered plates, remains of a meal. Then down and around. Then up a staircase. He gestured for me to go up. I did so. I did as his hands spoke. Upstairs. I passed the threshold. My body not knowing where to stand what to do. Heart beating again. Always beating. I could feel the sensation in my arms. I wanted it to stop. Wanted to stop feeling the pressure against my arms. Blood pumping. Drop it to zero. Let me back out. Let me back out. Clothes had already been removed. The General noticed me with a smile. 

"Thought you deserved some shore leave. Some real shore leave." He gave me a wink. He then gestured for the two girls to come over. "This is crystal." A blonde haired creature gave me a wink. "This one is oryx." A dark haired creature now did the same. Leaning back into the general's arms. "So the question is, which one is going to get to see a pilot's killer instinct tonight."

The words caught in my throat. What did it matter. I didn't know. I didn't know at all. "Well if you're asking then, Oryx." 

"I see, prefer them mysterious then. Time for your reward big dog." 

She started to strip. To show the body she had to me. 

"I heard you hadn't got any since you got here. You've earned it. Let's see how a pilot fucks!"

The girls laughed along, and the one I had chosen came towards me. My body would not respond. Then it started to. Blood pumping against the flow of my will. I didn't want to. I didn't want to do this. I stripped. Not like she did. Removing my clothes. I saw them react to me. To the size it was. Then I engaged in the act. My consciousness shut off within seconds. Wrapped in black. I welcomed it. The escape. The one mercy that would be afforded to me. Sitting disconnected. There was no input. No nothing. Just me and my thoughts. I was back here. No doubt about it. In my body. In the metal frame. In the bunker. I wondered how long it would be. How long I could live here. Away from it all. Away from that woman. That body. From Clark. The need to drink, the need to eat. The feeling of blood pumping in my veins, in my chest. It was all a million miles away. Under that beautiful patchwork sky. That I was shielded from too. Then I was back. Back in it. The deed was done. 

"Nice. Nice." The general gave me a low five. I was still naked. My eyes wondered over him. His torso. He was muscular and strong. Not my type but not unattractive. Then I broke away. 

"Thank you sir." I said. 

"Come on. We're buddies now. No need for the sir. So fucking free." 

I wanted to take the word buddy out his mouth. 

"You were such a stud." The girl looked over at me as she spoke.

"Do you wanna do a round two or?"

"I have to get some rest."

"Cool man, cool man, we all need our rest you know, particularly after the way you gave it to her. Real ladies man."

I nodded.

"Make sure you win some more battles for me." He held out his hand again for a hi-five. I obliged the command. He then headed into another room with both girls. 

I held my clothes. Putting them on. Reasserting that there was a membrane between me and the outside world. I let out a sigh. There was a benefit to having a body. I could sigh. I could feel my emotions leave me. Shaking and crying. Not something simulated in a brain pool. Something to feed back. To tell me that the stress was being left behind. Washed away with tears. I wanted someone to see me. I wanted Clark to see me. To tell me anything. That it was going to be okay. To tell me I was stupid. To tell me to shape up. To notice me. To notice the pain that was in me. It was fine now. It was finished now. It was gone now. I passed through the doorway. Clark was standing there, bottom of the stairs just as before. I looked at him. He looked back at me. I wanted to cry again. I couldn't cry. Couldn't waste his time.

"You did good. You did the mission."

"Clark. Thank you."

"It was necessary. For mission success." 

"Thank you."

"I didn't do it for you." He said.

"Thank you. Thank you."

"Let's get back okay. Tomorrow I'll be sending you back. Be glad he bought the night."

"Okay."

We went back through the party which had began to thin. Waited for the car, and then headed back. 

"You'll probably have a mission tomorrow. After you head back. It's not confirmed. Looks like they're trying to come over the wall. We'll see how bad it is, but it shouldn't be that much."

"Yes sir."

"Don't die on me. It's an easy mission. So don't get cocky." He said. 

I nodded.

The bed was comfortable. I had a body that could feel comfort. Feel something soft all around me. I was being held. Held by my body. My cradle. Time running out. The hours counting down to expiry. Until they walked me back to the hospital. Deposit myself out of this body.

Chapter 6 Edging

Return. Reborn. The briefing flashed before me. It was a raid. A raid into the enemy forces. I felt the pleasure surging into me. Better than sex. Better than fucking. Not quite as good as the smell of that steak. I was an animal. This was where I meant to be. The briefing was brief. It only showed a facility that I was supposed to tear apart and defeat all opposition within. Easy enough. I was inserted in the air. Taking free. Air all around me. I was free. Free as a bird. Descending down on my prey faster than the speed of sound. They couldn't even lock me. I was a lightening strike. Haunting the air above them. A scattered group of combat helicopters hung in the air. Some anti-air missile systems. Outdated. Weak. I would turn them into their appropriate shape. Twisted metal. 

The enemy pilots had no idea what was happening. They could hear the sound of me descending. The wind whipping around me. The sonic boom. It happened too fast for them to register. Too fast for the drugs to start to act. I could see the fear jerking in their movements. Strained and surprised. Quick to die. My blade bringing them the only end they could have reached. As the opposition faded the smell intensified. It was all around me. I could not drool. I could still feel the sensation. A phantom jaw open and ready to eat. The facility itself would be tough to render combat ineffective. I began to rip it apart. Each rip filling me with joy. WIth more and more joy as my hands carved jagged into the walls. Repeating as metal was undone. Machinery that was laid out ready for work was destroyed. Robots that carried materials in were destroyed. The transport links at either side were the best. The rails in my hands crushed into nothing. Filling me with more joy than I could take. The conscious feeling leaving me. Mission accomplished in bliss. 

I was inserted into the recreation servers. The drugs removed and scrubbed from my brain by systems I could not even hope to imagine. God was in his heaven manipulating my neurochemistry. That's when the tears started. I could not cry. The scripted animation playing out like a convulsion. The delay between the overflow and the stiff movements. This was not my body. This was not a body. This was nothing. I was nothing. I was just wires. I was numbers in the air. Convulsing in scripted agony. Unable. Unable to let anything out. It burned. They did that to me. I did that to me. They did that to me. It hurts. 

I looked around. Eyes trying to focus on anything to bring me away. There was the sky. The hills. The walled city. The tears. Again the animation started. Shaking me. Then I started to laugh. Started to switch between different shapes. Different smiles. Body trying to mimic the tourment inside. Lacking the fidelity to do so. Caught in a low poly rendering of my emotions. My body moved. I could feel it move. Forged in the same shapes. The same animations. Again and again. Switching through preset and prescripted motions. I was caught in a wave. In the current of my own emotions. In the wave of animations rolling over to me. I was a marble. Crushed under those forces. 

I started to see people. People. There were other people. There are other people. They want to hurt me. I have to. The animations continued. Unable to break out of them. Distress building. Burning me inside and out. Where was Clark. Where was he. Why hadn't he done his usual override. What was he doing right now. Where was he. The hand of God reached out. The suffering was burned away. Bliss filled me. Neurochemically rendered incapable of suffering. The animations ceased. All except the same idle cycle. I didn't notice. Standing there. 

Unconscious I was not. I was alive. I was gone. A brain that existed only to have it's synapses massaged by a wave of pleasure. This was better than that. Better than trying to fuck that broad. Better than anything else. Except the joy of cleaving another in half. 

What had I become. Some crazed murderer. What was I. What had they turned me into. I can't. Even. Anymore. I felt a hand on my shoulder again. I jumped away from it. What was a person doing here.

V8100: "What the hell did Clark do to you?"

W4153: "Help. Help. Help me."

V8100: "Honey it's okay." 

Her body floated towards me playing out a hug animation. It was stiff. I knew what she wanted to convey by it. I clutched onto the thought of her. 

W4153: "I'm fine. It's okay. I'm okay. Don't worry."

V8100: "So I'm supposed to expect that one of those animation loops is just something normal for you."

W4153: "You've seen them before?" 

V8100: "Not often. I see it enough. When a pilot can't come back. There's something gnawing at their brain. Stress overload."

W4153: "How do you deal with stress."

V8100: "Baby don't you remember?"

I remembered the giant pit. The mess of monsters. People diving to take damage. Her at the centre raising them. 

W4153: "Can I come?" 

An animation played out on her face. I was trying to understand what it was, surprise, confusion. Neither made much sense.

V8100: "You can stop and start whenever you want."

W4153: "I need a hit."

V8100: "It's okay. Just. Okay. Are you sure. That you want to do this."

W4153: "Why do you care. Why does it matter to you. Why does it matter to you what I do. You hate him. You hate him. You hate me. You hate me too. Don't you want to see me hurt."

She paused for a minute. 

V8100: "I'm sorry about before. I don't know what kind of relationship you have with him. I. I mean at the end of the day we're all just trying our best. On good days I think I wouldn't do what he did. On bad days I know I would. We all know there's part of us that would. For life on the surface."

W4153: "I went."

V8100: "You met people up there then." 

W4153: "Yeah." 

V8100: "He probably could've handled it himself but. This might be for the best. Building contacts up top is the only way you'll ever leave this place."

W4153: "How long have you been here?"

V8100: "I don't know. They don't tell us. I can tell you that I've seen a lot of faces come and go. Only a few people before me are still here. That's all I know." 

W4153: "Why aren't you up top?"

V8100: "I can guess. I've seen some of the videos you know, passed around about you, about others. I've seen the frantic way you move. The drugs they give you, they work on you. They really work on you. You don't care. You don't think. You just fight. You're interesting to them. Not another pilot. You're interesting. There's always a pilot like you. They want to see you."

W4153: "Why haven't you bought your way out?"

V8100: "I didn't realize this was going to be an interrogation."

W4153: "Sorry. I'm. I'm being stupid."

V8100: "Honey, please. It's okay. You're new, you have questions. You're also asking about me. It's sweet. You're talking more to me than some of the guys I've been resurrecting for weeks. It's because I don't earn much. I don't have a chance. That's okay. I know I'll never make it out of here."

W4153: "Why don't you just end it out there?" 

V8100: "I forget."

W4153: "What?"

V8100: "It's boring what I do but I just never think about it out there."

W4153: "Do you want to die?"

V8100: "I don't want to. I know I'm going to. I know where I'll die. I know what the days before it will be like. I know what I will do before my death. I know that it will be out of my hands. That's okay. That's all okay with me. What I want to do is what I can. We're all going to die. That's okay."

W4153: "I think. I don't want to die. I like fighting. Fighting feels good. I don't. I don't want to. With the people. I don't want to."

V8100: "You didn't like up top?"

W4153: "I didn't."

V8100: "That's okay. Just do what you want with the time you have. It's up to you. You're not free, you don't have many options. That's not okay. That's the worst part about all this. But. Even without many options you're still free to choose. To fight. To talk to me. To do quests. To burn out for a while. There's still things you can do."

She paused for a minute.

V8100: "There's one thing about dying that I hate. That I'll be leaving everyone behind. I can't do what I do when I'm gone. Magpie's a good replacement but I'll need to train a couple more up someday. Or now. Or sometime. I don't know when I'll be gone. Early on I liked it. I liked knowing that there weren't many people who did what I did. When I got the best at it. It felt like I had somewhere to be. Something I was. Now I look back on it and it seems so stupid. It wasn't about me. It was never about me. It was about giving people what they needed to get through living in bodies like this. Jerking around. Living like this." 

I didn't know what to say. Her words hung around me for a moment. Like smoke from a single shared cigarette.

V8100: "So kid, what is it you want to do? You want to keep on fighting? Just chasing that high? Is it really worth it."

I paused. I remembered one thing. I remembered the steak. I wanted it. I still wanted it. Mouthless saliva drooling from me. I was an animal. I knew what I hungered for. Not this generated satiation. Drugs and electrical shocks simulating it for a moment. Using it to control me. Holding me by my stomach. I was an animal. I wanted to be free.

W4153: "I. I think. I want to move on. I want to eat what I want. When I want. I want to live by myself. I'm such a pathetic animal. I just want to eat."

V8100: "You want a body huh."

W4153: "I want my body. No strings attached."

V8100: "You want to be free."

W4153: "Yeah."

V8100: "There's nothing in this world without a price tag. You have to lie, steal and cheat your way up. That's the only way you're going to get what you want. I guess the apple doesn't fall far from the tree." She said with a sigh.

W4153: "I don't wanna hurt anyone."

V8100: "Then give up on your dreams. You don't have enough time. The way you fight. You're going to die sooner." 

I wanted to disagree. Pick away at her logic. I couldn't. Of course I couldn't. There was nothing more for me to say. I was waiting. Waiting to meet the bullet with my name on it. I could feel it calling out to me somewhere. I would meet it with a smile on my face. Feeling as good as I can. Feeling as good as any human can. What's the point. These interim stretches rotting in silicone hell.

W4153: "So about burning out."

V8100: "I can do that for you." 

W4153: "Thank you." 

This time it was in a cave. Deep beneath the earth in a pit. Illuminated by attack animations alone. Flashes of pain and release. 

W4153: "I know what to do."

V8100: "I know you do. Don't shrink from the hits."

The first attack connected with me. I could feel polygon flesh peeled back. The regeneration trying to kick in. I could feel the dulled pain. Filling me with sensation. Give me more. Burn away my propellant. Take me out. Take me away. Take me out from all that I can remember. No more Fullbright. No more animal. No more steak. No more Clark. No more Clark. Nothing. Nullify. Destroy. Turn my brain into nothing. Contentless. The pain filtered through a thousand dulling wires giving me a drip of sensation to focus on. I can feel it now. I can feel it now. The jaws of death around me. I'm so close. Just bring me out. Push me over the edge. 

I was not prepared with how anticlimatic it was. I was pulled over the edge. Then by some self righting mechanism I was here. Of course a rendered corpse beneath me. I could look at myself. At the body I chose. I was cute. This was a body free from embarrassment. It had not been touched not by the General, Clark, any women. It was free of the dirt of the world. It started to move again. The revive connecting my disembodied perspective back to it. I saw her movements at the center, knowing that she moved out of love. That the monsters moved out of love.

Chasing it again. The pain. Trying again to get to that edge. To feel the moment where it might be that I was brought my quiet dead darling world. It was futile. There was no way I could die. Brain to jammed full of drugs for me to even think of getting what I wanted. Of meeting that final bullet of release. It was pointless. I could never reach it. The body I wanted. It would always be tied up with string. I could never be free. Not in steel. Not in flesh. That edge between black and white. The knife I dance on. Is the most free I'll ever be. 

Chapter 7 Father what must I do

Next mission. Next hit. Next pit. Following markers. Pain to pain. A single wire rurnning through my brain. Pain passing through the blood brain barrier. Sensation breathed into me. I saw names I recognized. I saw Potomac in the pit. For a time. Before he vanished. Maybe he died. Maybe he stopped coming. It didn't matter. It wasn't pain. It wasn't battle. It wasn't oblivion. There was nothing else as important. 

Entering combat mode. My brain made the necessary nervous connection. Even the sounds of the system kicking into gear were enough to fill me with joy. I was ready. They did not need to apply any lubricant. Put me in deep. Belly of the beast. Veins throbbing. We had broken through. There wasn't even a line here. There were some drones in the sky. Falling, wings clipped as the jamming zapped the bugs from the sky. No fibre optic lines. Too fast a fall back for that. A fading state. The dying throes. Broken walls and chewed up payment. Twisted metal mechs. The battle was coming to a close. My RWR silent. They had no more archers to give. There was greenery that I crushed underfoot. I couldn't feel the leaves, the grass, not from here. I remembered the warmth. The smell. Like a distant dream. Might as well wipe it away. Then there were the small people. 

Not mechs. Not tanks. Not me. They smelled so good. Some of them shot back. Some of them did not. Some of them ran. Some of them had no weapons. Crushed underfoot. Red marks on the payment all that was left. All of their pain. Their memory. They lost. Pink and red. Shit and pennies. Smeared on the boulevards. It felt so good. To bring them quietus. To process them. Each step. Each punch. The seconds between a human and human remains. Divided by a thin line of skin. Splayed out. Bulging fat. Burned away. Fed into me. Pulsing dopamine in me. Target markers counting down. I lamented it. The liberation from battle. Forced back into the pit. To feel anything. No more pleasure. I lingered for a moment. Holding the last man in my hand. A civilian. No weapon. I examined the look of fear through camera eyes. He smelled so good. Like the steak raw, wriggling and blooming under the skin. I had to. The pressure building in my fist. Forcing the skin apart. Shredded meat. Target neutralized. 

The claws of the shutdown sequence. Forced back underneath the waves. Consciousness passing through the plughole. Back. Back. Back. What had I done. I stood there. In the dark as always. Blood pumping. There was no body of course. Simulated. Animation looping again. Getting in the way of the hit. 

I wanted to be sick. A stomach with no mechanism for expulsion. The residual motions still encoded into me. Something they hadn't been able to nullify. What had I done. In dancing agony. Inflicted that on them. What had I done. Did it matter. What did my pain do for them. Corpses smeared into dust. What did it matter. If it weren't me it was going to be someone else. It was a job that needed doing. I had to. I didn't have a choice. I couldn't crush a paper cup. It wasn't me. I didn't do it. I couldn't have. System desync. 

Back through the wires my consciousness wound. Tightly around Clark. 

"I always tell them you know. Keep the sensation dampners running. Cut the memory. After missions like that. They never listen."

Clark what did I do. 

"Your job. You did well. You fought hard. The betting markets hadn't come in. There were a couple who thought you'd stand there. There was a parlay on timings."

Timings?

"How long it'd take for you to clear the city block. Neutralize any enemy forces in the area."

Clark they weren't. 

"You did well, neutralized them effectively. Conserved ammunition. Fuel even. You're already all good for another sortee."

Clark. I. I'm.

"You're a monster. Don't worry. This doesn't change anything. You're a monster. Moral reasoning is a little beyond your paygrade. Don't worry your head about the strategic side."

Do you think that if you use big words I'm just going to be able to ignore it.

He flashed a smile at me. Teeth showing. "You know, you're still there. There's something. Beyond the bullshit. You're a human. Not a paper monster. You're a real flesh and blood monster. Blood on your hands. You're just human enough to feel guilty to beg for mercy."

What's your point.

"I'm getting to it. Don't interrupt me." He lingered for a moment.

Well?

The silence hung on. He still smiled at me. I didn't have a face to show the tenseness I felt. I couldn't express it in my muscles. Long since rotten and severed away. My body was lost. Reborn as nothing. An iron lump with a number attached. A murderer. A monster.

"Interesting thoughts you're having back there."

Stop it. 

"Make me." He said. Taking a paper cup and drinking from it. 

You did the same shit don't lie to me. 

"And? What does it matter my mission history. If you have sinned that's between you and God, not me and you." 

What were you even saying. 

"Think about it. What does your humanity actually do to you."

I don't get it. I was a human. I was born a human it was. It's not my fault. 

"No. It is your fault. Be a human don't bullshit me."

It's my fault. I could've. Maybe. There was something.

"What could you have done?" 

Can you quit it. Just tell me okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for what I must've done to you. I'm sorry for it all okay. I'm sorry I screwed up fucking that girl. I'm sorry I'm not doing my missions perfectly. I'm sorry that I can't. I'm not doing anything.

"Your missions are good. I don't have any complaints here. I'm a little annoyed you desynced. You were much better as a monster, as a junkie. Isn't it better? To be like that? You don't even need to try and be a person anymore." 

What he was saying crystalized at the back of my throat. It cut into me. I didn't have a throat. There was an icy sensation all the same. A feeling of terrible dread. Standing on the edge. If I had hands they would shake. If I had eyes they would cry. If I weren't dismembered and twisted. All this humanity serves to do. Is make me feel bad for the creature I am.

"There it is. You got it. Good boy." 

I get it now. 

"Do you enjoy it. Doing something that only causes you pain."

I don't think I can do anything else. 

"You don't think that's for sure. Took all this time to drag it out of you. Now think about it, wouldn't they want you to be happy."

Who?

"You know. All those people you murdered. What does your pain do for them?"

Nothing.

"Nice job. Not so retarded after all."

Thank you. 

"No, no the praise is all yours. Take it. Just let yourself feel good. You don't have to be a person. You never were. Just take it. Take my words. You don't need to go crying over it all."

Thank you Clark.

"It's interesting though. The amount of needless self inflicted pain you carry. It's cute."

Cute?

"It proves to me, that you're still a person. Buried under that steel. There's something in that mush up there, that makes you more a person than that fucker ever will be."

You mean.

"Don't think his name. Don't get that shit in the records. That guy fucking fawning over you. It's disgusting. Giving you a reward without even asking. Focussing on bullshit paper. He's not a monster, he's even worse like that. He's not real. There's nothing about him that's real. You're something real. There's something real there. Human. Monster. Real nonetheless."

I'm cute.

"Yeah sure that's what you're going to linger on." 

Thank you.

"I'm sending you back for now, but it looks like we'll have anther outing soon. Up top." 

Thank you Clark. Can I have the same body.

"You know you're probably going to do the same shit right?"

I know. But it felt like home. So. 

"It's a cute body. It suits you." 

Thank you. You can, you know when you said you could control my expenses. You can, if you want take a little bit of that.

"You're letting me garnish your wages?" 

Well I mean. It's not doing me any good. I'm never going to make it out of here.

"You're right. You'll meet that bullet. The way you fight. More likely for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle."

So if it makes you happy.

"I can't. I would. Don't worry. I can look at getting you some new parts though. All the better to massacre civilians with right?" 

Yeah. 

"I'm sending you back okay. Woah look at those seratonin levels."

Okay Clark. I l-

Restoring session. Downtime 18878ms.

That's a lot of eights. Must be my lucky day. It has to be my lucky day. Loading into the pit I saw a duo. Two women who were not succumbing to the rhythmn of death and rebirth. They were interrupting Magpie. The priest presiding today. Trading with him over and over. Interrupting his revives. Leaving a trail of bunched up bodies stuck in death animations. They slew all the enemies clearing out the area. Not so lucky after all. I wanted to hit them back, but there wasn't any PvP in this area. All I could do was watch as my means of release was denied from me. 

F5584: "Looks like we wrapped it up here."

F3012: "Look at this kid."

They came up to me.

F5584: "Oh it's that boy, the one making waves. Not like the rest. He's got a professional life."

F3012: "He fights like a man possessed. Course he'd end up here. Slag on the slag heap. No offence Ferrous." 

F5584: "None taken. Let's see if there's anything left in his burnt out brain." 

M6513: "Can you guys just leave us alone. We're not doing anything to you. We've been nothing but civil."

F5584: "Why would I be interested in what scum like you has to say? Enabling this degenerate bullshit day after day. Not just enabling it. You're planning it, making it happen."

M6513: "What else are we supposed to do up here? Read through the same dumb flavour text again?" 

F5584: "Shut up man. It's not about that."

M6513: "Then whatever in the world is it about?" 

F5584: "I'm bored. I'm bored of half the fucking players around here huddling in a pit and taking hits. It's fucking boring. I'm stuck here."

M6513: "All you need do is join us."

F5584: "Not my style big boy."

M6513: "That's hardly a satisfying answer."

F5584: "I don't need a crutch."

M6513: "What about people who do?"

F5584: "They should learn to be strong. They should be forced to."

M6513: "Whatever. I'm leaving." 

F5584: "Yeah, you'd better." 

He filed out. The bodies started to despawn. I stood there. It had been so easy to exist doing nothing. No choices. No need to think. Pain. Mission. Pleasure. Release. Over and over. I needed it. I needed the pain again. Why was it taken away from me. I needed it. This was all I had. 

F3012: "What's your deal kid?" 

W4153: "Screw you guys."

F5584: "Wow. Looks like we made the kid angry. Taking away his favourite toy. How cute."

W4153: "You two aren't allowed to call me that." 

F3012: "The fuck does that matter." 

F5584: "Looks like we have another burned brain retard. Shame really. I wanted to fight it out with you. See how strong you really were." 

W4153: "Why are you doing this?"

F5584: "It's for your own good kid."

W4153: "Why does it matter. I'm going to die. You're going to die."

F3012: "You're going to die. I've seen how you fight. Fucking psycho." 

F5584: "You die then what."

W4153: "It doesn't matter."

F5584: "So what, you don't care about anyone remembering you when you're gone. You've seen how shit is out here. One day you see someone, next day they're gone. Like leaves in the wind. What you're doing, that's exactly what they want. Your apathy. Stone cold."

W4153: "When's the part, where I get to feel something again?" 

F3012: "You're lucky you're in a safe zone kid."

W4153: "Hit me as much as you want."

F5584: "Yeah he's probably getting off on it too."

W4153: "Why does it matter to me, if I'm remebered, if I'm forgotten, I'm dead." 

F5584: "You know, you have value. You're not just some weapon. You're not some box for taking in experiences, until you rot. Until the box leaks."

W4153: "You think being remembered makes us human? We're not human. These hands. These hands what they've done." 

F5584: "They sent you a cleanup mission then?"

W4153: "That's what we call it?"

F5584: "Ironic isn't it. Makes your hands dirtier than anything." 

W4153: "Yeah."

F5584: "You know, it's good that you're recognizing it."

W4153: "What do you mean? It doesn't serve any purpose. All this stuff. All this guilt." 

F3012: "This is boring. He's just another one of those."

F5584: "No Coal, there's something here."

W4153: "A monster. A murderer." 

F5584: "That's what I mean. He's not totally gone. Not yet." 

W4153: "It's not doing me any good." 

F5584: "You're remembering them. Remembering that they were people. Those people you never knew. You had no choice to kill. That's recognizing that they were people. They weren't just targets. They were real people. It hurts doesn't it. It hurts so bad. Because you know they were people. And you're a person too."

W4153: "I can't be one. I can't. I've tried. I've tried so hard."

The animation loop started again. Sticking to me. Bending my body around. 

F3012: "I knew this was going to be a bust."

F5584: "Yeah. I guess you're right. It was too much to ask. I'll send him a friend request anyway. Who knows. He might snap out of it." 

He gave me a wave. I could see it as the duo left the cave. Out into the sun. I moved alone. Dancing to my own emotions. Waving like a flame. As the winds pushed me around. Bending me. I was alone. I was so alone. I was a monster. I can't even play house. Not as a person. It had to have been a long time before anything happened. Aside from my body moving. When it stopped I didn't know what to do. Time had slowed. All the hours of the day that chasing pain had taken up were given back to me all at once. Where do I even go. What do I even do. They'll find somewhere else. Something else. Somewhere to go. They always will. 

The friend request. The first name to be added there. I always thought I'd find Potomac. Somewhere in the world. Where was he now. Gone probably. He had to be. We're born. We die. Never logging in again. Wiped from a data base. Fat scrubbed from steel. Just like the meat scrubbed from my hands. The blood and bones underfoot. A gun is disposable. The bullet itself is entirely disposable parts. The propellant is burned away all at once to even begin the action. The expanding gas pushing the bullet forward to be discarded in whatever beside remains before the barrel. The casing trash. Discardedd. No longer fit for use. The barrel it travels down heating up. Warping from use. In time it would need to be replaced. The firing mechanism. The trigger mechanism. Always needing to be maintained. Until someday it would need to be replaced. After enough active use without enough care. Leaving the frame. The outline of the firing mechanism, barrel, trigger, bullets and magazine assembly, the only proof of what once existed here. 

Death would not come for me. I would be consumed. It was the one possible mechanism of release open to me. That magic bullet. That would turn me into broken parts. Then it wouldn't matter. Human. Animal. Girl. Boy. Monster. Person. It wouldn't matter anymore. Freedom. Fucking freedom finally. When I'm expended. Magazine empty. Served my purpose and given the service of an end. There wasn't anything else to it. Even the people I knew. It wouldn't matter. Legacy, community. The living alone are the ones entitled to such luxuries. The living. With their parties. Their bodies. That can feel. Diffuse emotions into the air. I could never be one of them. A magic bullet and crushing probabilities rendering away any chance of that. Condemned to be an animal, a boy and a monster. I deserved it. The blood on my hands. Proactive punishment before the crime. Nothing can save me now. Except being expended. 

Soon I would away. To be given leave to a body. For a time. I would still be a monster. Skin deep humanity. It was all that I could ever dream of. From the bottom of that pit.

Chapter 8 - Touch

"You still in there?" 

The camera fell again on Clark's face, just beyond the glass. It took a moment to register. The light in my eyes. There was no pain. Nothing to adjust except my brain. A brain that had grown so used to a dark void. Meaning breathed through the brain itself, not the eyes. Direct contact with a constructed reality within a constructed reality.

"Whiskey?" 

Not even the pain. Nothing there. 

"WAKE THE FUCK UP!" 

The sound grabbed my mind. Pulled it to the ground. Through the glass. 

Ow.

"Man. You let yourself go."

Okay.

He looked at me. Cold eyes. There was something thawing at the edge. A crystalized thought. Regret. 

I'm still here Clark.

"Are you all there? What the fuck did you do to yourself did I?"

You didn't do anything wrong. You're busy right.

"Stuffing hopeless new meat into a grinder yeah. That's what I've had to do." 

Better than having to spend time with me. You did good. Letting them die. Letting them die clean. Again. That look. 

"Well excuse mee for looking with concern at what my moneymaker did to itself."

I lived. That's it.

"Why do you care about living clean. You aren't human. You aren't supposed to care about human things."

It's not that I care. I don't care. It's not going to do anyone any good if I care. So I don't. Not anymore. I don't care about what I did. I don't care about you. About fighting. I don't care. There's nothing left to care about. I'm just a weapon. I'm waiting for someone to squeeze my trigger. That's all. I'm waiting to get burnt out. Get broken apart. Then get replaced by the next avaiable firearm. That's it. That's the way of the world. I can care about it. Or not. The same thing is going to happen.

"I can't. There's gotta be something." 

I saw him look at his control panel. Scrambling for something to give me. I knew what was going through his thought process. If he could find the right drugs, zap the right synapses. The cancerous bundle of nerves making up the thought process I had. Then maybe, he could restore normal functionality. It was not just regret. It was confusion. It was loss. It was all splayed out in his eyes. I didn't need a microscope to see him for who he was. What he wanted.

"Shut up." 

I'm not making any noise. You can choose to minimize the window. Leave my thoughts somewhere you can't read them. 

"Just shut up." 

Okay Clark. 

"No. No not like. Wait a minute. Wait."

I. What do you even want me to do.

"Fuck."

There's nothing to swear about. There's nothing to worry about. We're just at the end of a giant line of systems. We're being crushed. Why rage. What need is there to rage against a storm. It's wasted effort. We will do what we must. The only things we could have ever done. Written in stone before our first thoughts ever formed. 

"Ugh. I don't want you to shut up. I want you. To stop thinking like this." 

It's the truth.

"Whatever. What you believe doesn't matter. Yeah sure. Whatever. It does matter subjectively. Even if it doesn't matter objectively."

All having a subjeective viewpoint does is cause pain. So why bother.

"It can cause joy too."

I tried to feel something. To try and spark something in the back of my head. All I could feel was a lust for the sound. Entering combat mode. The smell and the sights. My heart started to beat. I was disconnected from it all. In a different way. No resignation. The thundering chemical action of joy filling me. 

"You like that don't you? You freak?" 

It feels good. Wait you're the one doing this.

"Yeah baby. All 25mm of that needle pumping into you." 

Okay you don't need to make it like that. 

"It's the same thing. On an objective scale."

I thought I wasn't supposed to be thinking objectively.

"Just enjoy it."

I don't think I have any choice not to. 

"You're so boring now."

Are guns supposed to be interesting.

"Yeah?"

Okay bad example but still.

"You're cool. You're badass even. I was more badass when I was in that suit than I am now. A bunch of wet meat encased in a dried out skin bag. Given structure by some calcium. It's not the same. Four metal limbs. Guns and swords. Not to mention a fucking rocket engine. A reactor."

I thought you were better than me.

"I'm better. At being a human. I'm not a killing machine. But you are. And let's face it. A killing machine is cooler than a flesh and blood human." 

I don't think it matters either way. Though. Well. Okay. Are you dropping the dose when I disagree with you. 

"Yeah?" 

Okay. Well. I guess I can't do anything about it. 

"You're only gonna feel good when I let you."

Ah. 

"Look at that. Something beneath the surface."

It was pretty obvious I was going to enjoy a line like that. 

"I'm not so sure. You can be pretty sweet, when you're dissassociating and blasted out your mind on feel good drugs." 

Thank you Clark. 

"Now. All that shit you were saying, doesn't matter if it's true. If it's not true. That doesn't matter. What makes you keep going."

The fact I can't commit suicide.

"Wrong answer."

Okay wait. Please. 

"Go on."

Because the only place I could commit suicide, on a mission, it feels too good to think about anything else.

"That's right. So next question, what makes life worth living."

This. This feeling.

"Good boy. No. Let me." Clark went over to the console. "Good girl." 

That's not fair. 

"You can't exactly hide it." 

Fuck.

"You're enjoying it?"

If I say yes then you'll give me more.

"The fact you want more is proof you already know the answer."

I'm enjoying it.

"It's a little different in combat you know. You're pumped full of something else. Let me get you on that. Actually, for a second."

As another drug slid into the grooves of my mind I noticed something. Clark's movements looked sluggish. Every second lingered on. Drowning in the sensation. He called me a girl. He's given me all this. 

"Back."

What was that. That was better.

"In combat we give you that so you can react even faster."

Can I have a little more?

"Nope. Not now anyway. I'm just goingn to tell you what's going to happen after this."

Tell me. Tell me. 

"We're going back to the surface in that body you liked so much. We're meeting with another General."

Not Fullbright.

"General Fullbright has a very specific contract. We've had a whole General and his staff reach out to us. Wants to turn you into a bigshot."

Okay.

"Look at the meetings all you need to do is sit there and look pretty and you can do that."

I can. I can do that.

"Good. Now you know the drill. Count down for me."

5, 4, 3-

I had the body. The pressure of the slate underneath me. The bright light in my eyes. The bliss had left my system. There wasn't emptiness to replace it. A sudden pain in my chest rushed in to replace it. My eyes opened. I wanted to cry. I was going to cry. On the edge of the tears. Stuck with a body still paralyzed. 

"It should take less time for him to wake up this time. Considering the body was warmer this time." The doctor said. 

"I think he's come back." Clark said. 

"Wow. I didn't even see. Look at that." The doctor pointed at the vital monitors. "You know it gets hard to see after a while. He was quicker coming in this time."

"It's familiar." Clark said. 

"What's this." The doctor said. Examining my eyes. "He's. Are his eyes." 

He shone a light up. I could only see such bright light now. It hurt a little. 

"That's all fine. Then. Is this."

They're tears. I. Help me. Help me. Help me.

"Is there anything wrong?"

"He's crying."

Not here. I didn't want to do this here. Not in front of them. Take me away. Take me somewhere else. Where I can cry on my own. I don't want. I can't have them worry about me. If they do that. If they do that then. If they help me. It's such a waste. Trust me. The moment I have a body I vomit my emotions into it. A physical outlet for my live wire. Coming up to breathe after so much time drowning. 

"Leave." Clark said.

"What if he's in pain."

"You can check that. Then get out."

The doctor stood up next to the screens. Gave them a glance. His finger went out tracing over the numbers and referencing how they lined up with what he knew to be correct ranges. Then he nodded and left. I tried to stir my vocal cords into action. Then they started to join in. My whole body crumpling into crying. Breaking around me. I felt his hand. His warm hand. Just around me. He hoisted me up. He held me. His hands were holding me. His body was touching mine. I could feel him. His body heat. Gifting me that which had been taken by the slab. It was a hug. He was hugging me. That was what was happening. My arms. I struggled and pulled them. I put them around him. Even then they hung limp. My body shook. The tears conducting down my spine. It was wet. A body is so much wetter than you think. Tears and sweat and snot. 

"It's okay. It's going to be okay."

I didn't notice the taste of rubber yet. The only sensation I could feel being the cold tears leaving me. Shaking me. Wrung from a towel. 

"I'm sorry. I'm sorry Clark."

My hoarse voice at its limits to apologize for the mess I was leaving on his suit. 

"Sorry for what."

"For your suit."

"Don't worry your pretty little head about it."

"Okay." 

"You're okay now. It's going to be okay. Let's get you dressed, get to the hotel, you have a busy day tomorrow."

Motion breathed into me. Mind and body seperation etched into those same jerked movements. Still m ore fluid than the imprisoning animations of the other side. I was dressed. Same suit. Same shoes. Same look as before. All that was missing was the tears and stains of another bad night. It was going to be okay. This time it was going to be okay. It was the car. Under the stars again. I could reach out. I could touch them. See the ads roll by. Pilots, drugs, food, sex. Big bright lights. The constilations we make to try and induce a sale. 

Pass the lobby. Sweep the room for bugs. This time a beep beep beep. A finger on Clark's lips. His body tense. Movements haunted by the knowledge of the other side. He sat on the bed. I knew what it meant someone was listening. Another ear. He let out a sigh. Breaking the tension. Clapped his hands once and got up. 

"I'm going to have a shower. You sit here, wait and go after me okay?" He spoke with a smile. Flat voice. Happy without any shine. 

I nodded.

Getting undressed was its own challenge. Fingers fumbling with buttons. Each one he had done up for me with so much care. It felt wrong to undo. Retrace where he touched and undo. Erase what he had done for me. It was strange to linger on such thoughts. It wasn't done with care. I had to leave that hospital and it would have been strange for me to do so in a gown. It was something necessary. It was part of the mission profile. That was all it could be. 

He came out the shower in a towel robe and gestured for me to get up. There was nothing to consider besides that. It was comforting, warm water coming over me. It smelled nice. Better than that perfume used before. The warm water making me new. Then I noticed him coming into the shower. He sat down on the floor after looking around for a moment with the same tool as before. 

"This room's clear. They at least don't mind giving us some small privacy."

"I see." 

"We're meeting with the Blackriver Group, they're a whole entertainment organization. It makes sense they'd be more cautious."

"How come?"

"They're a whole group, you have someone in the room who can ask why didn't we bug their rooms, and you know it goes down the chain. In somewhere like Fullbright's outfit they're just going to follow what he says and he's a trusting guy."

"Useful."

"He's the problem though. It's always about him. I got an offer from these guys. They want to put you more forward. I guess you'll see tomorrow. They have big plans for you."

"Why would they have plans with me?"

"Haven't you seen all the ads? They're going to make you a star. Or. That's the offer anyway."

"Why does that matter?"

"First of all, if I'm talking about it then what does that mean."

"It matters."

"Good. And there's a lot of money in it. You're not just selling bets, you're selling stories, and stories to justify the bets. You know you already have a few gamblers treating you like their lucky pair of underwear, but there are more people than just gamblers out there." 

"I think I get it."

"Good. Not that it matters if you really get it but. I guess I'm happy to see you understanding things."

"Clark."

He stood up.

"Yeah?"

"Can I ask you something?"

"I guess."

"Well. Okay. I'm sorry."

"No, no, you're already wasting my time so."

Hearing those words made all of my muscles that had relaxed from the warm water tense all at once.

"I'm sorry. I'm being stupid. I'm a retard."

"You can't back out now."

"Why did you hug me?"

"I couldn't leave a girl crying on a morgue slab could I?" 

"I see." I paused. "Thank you."

"I'm heading back out. I'll see you in bed. Remember they're watching in there. I don't think you'll forget but you know. And. You can police me too. Just finger in front of your lips." 

"I can do that."

It was a strange feeling. The happiness that came from his answer. The tension left me. Again the warm comforting water washed over me. I cleaned myself. Then. I turned the water down. The cold water running down me. Another sensation that this borrowed body would teach me. At peace. I shut off the water. 

The lines were recycled. Listing out the things we liked about the outside. A natural conversation kept in a bottle and fed to the guy on the other side of the line. If there was anyone. The bed was warm still. Soft sheets against me. Something to feel and hold onto. 

Chapter 9 - Tea Party

The next morning it was nutriblocks for me while he headed downstairs for breakfast. I imagined the smell again. The meat. It made me slobber over tasteless nutirious shelf stable cardboard. There was a faint flavour to it. Slightly sweet, like eating a piece of paper. Sitting on my tongue dissolving and becoming part of me. Part of this body. Not me. I drank water this time. Washing the taste from my tongue. Shrouded myself in the same suit folded and placed in the wardrobe by sightless hands. Surrounded by sightless ears. I wated. Standby for a commanding officer. Standing in front of the door. Heels clicked. Front towards enemy. 

My knees started to hurt. I stood there. Waiting. I waited still. A watch wouldn't mean the slightest thing. All there was, was the door, a rectangle of black varnished wood. A sleek handle that looked like a firearm. Just like me. The locks lovingly carved into it as spells for a casket going to the underworld. 

My body hurt. I felt it pulsing through me. The distant signals reinterpretted by wires and transmitted back into me. Just like the pit. Take it in. Drink of it and be remade anew. The door clicked open. Clark looked at me. No small amount of shock that I was standing here so close to the door. The kind of reaction I had itself being no small surprise. The look in his eyes were how he could communicate. Words held behing a veil of the bugs. He just looked. Starred down at me. At the small reaction that had occured downstairs without me thinking. He clicked his tongue. 

"Good job for getting ready." The same smile worn on his face. That jovial tone. "We've got the meeting soon so let's go downstairs, you can show yourself off to everyone." 

He put his hand on my shoulder, guided me out without me being able to say a word. The door clicked and whirred on our exit. I was still. It was going still. My steps strained a little against him as he pushed me forward. As if making me show off my situation. It didn't diminish. Not in the lift. Not in the lobby. Not into the car. Again he took out his device. Making cookie cutter conversation. Asking me how I slept. That smile again. The same reaction. The same bugs listening in, perpetuating the same smile, the same conversation. It was tiresome to maintain normalcy. The mask preventing me from seeing what he really thought beyond what could be said in a glance. 

A great glass tower was where we were brought. My embarassment had faded. I followed lock step behind Clark. To the reception. We were handed name tags, though mine was still a designation. Clark put his on, turned to me and put mine on for me. We passed a gated checkpoint and went up in an elevator then escorted to a conference room. There were names all laid out at even distances, names and a couple of designations. People were standing around the edge, waiting for it to start standing on ceremony. Same canned smiles and recycled conversations. A group of five came in surrounded by attendants. They stood up in front of their places. 

"Ladies, gentlemen, if you would please be seated." 

They gestured and we snapped into place. 

"We're lucky to welcome some esteemed talent here today. Welcome Handler Rivers, Handler Smith, and Handler Clark, and associated entourage. Each of you have contracts with other actors, we're aware of that fact and your negotiating power. However we're proposing a mutually benefical deal, the catch is there are only two avaiable slots on this opportunity. We've invited the three of you to compete. Some of the most promising branding opportunities we've had in a while."

"You're going to make us stars, right?" I said. I did not think. As I started to, I knew that I was not supposed to speak. An entourage, an appendage of my handler. 

The speaker smirked. A middle aged man behind his glasses. "That's right. I take it you already know our proposals. Not just lucky underwear for a gambling addict. We're selling you as stories. As stars. Merchandise, fan meetups. The works. A chance for you dogs to get away from the front lines too after all. Who wouldn't want to be a star." 

Handler Rivers, the woman around the table moved closer to the table. "Thank you so much for the opportunity. I believe that Tiber here would have a lot to offer the team."

"I have to commend you Ms Rivers on your ingenuity in being able to find another pilot to occupy the seat, we had originally asked for Potomac to fill this space but he was killed in action two weeks ago." 

The words sunk into me. Aching in my stomach. It hurts. It hurts. He's just gone. That's just that is he. An aside at a table. A way of putting a handler on the back foot. That's all we were. A weapon, rhetorical or otherwise.

"Tiber has a great story. Three successful missions ripping through enemy lines."

"Tiber I see? That's not the name we have here. Though I can't deny his success on the battlefield in the limited time he's been a pilot."

"T7642 is a capable pilot, he has no real quirks and he has performed well in combat."

I looked at the other pilot and he locked eyes with me. He had picked a taller body, broader shoulders and he wore a natural smile. I tried to fashion my face into something similar. He gave me a nod. I tried to respond back.

"Well is that all you have to say about this opportunity Ms Rivers?" 

"My pilots are a tight knit group. There would be ample room for expansion. In fact you've invited Mr. Smith, you already have one of his pilots in your program, but they do not share nearly the bond my pilots do. Ti-, T7462, talk about your friends."

Again he wore that smile that fit him so well. Those lips that fit such a nice looking face. I couldn't look away. 

"I used to be friends with Potomac, he was so friendly and I felt at home around him. It was devastating when I was told he was dead. I've found however in my group such a deep connection, with Rhine and Danube, both of them have been firm friends taking me through the recreation servers. Taking me through the early quests. Their kindness allows me to fight harder. Believing in my friends lets me believe in my victory."

"Very good, well rehearsed. The sob story is a nice extra too. Well I hadn't intended us to fall into pitches so early but let us proceed. Mr Smith, or Mr Clark, who might be?" 

Clark tried to raise his hand but was beaten by Smith starting to speak.

"Thank you Mr. Lovett, can I just say it's so good to be back here again. I've been so pleased to see how Ferrous has taken to his role so let's see A7944, he's a relatively new pilot, three deployments to his name, the methodic way he takes down his enemies will keep up support, he's a killer alright, and that's what sells."

"And?"

"That's all sir." 

"Does he have anything to say or not?" 

The pilot shook his head. His movements were jerked, it was his first time up top and he showed it. 

"That's a negative sir."

"Okay, fine, we'll move on then." 

Smith did not seem to realize but I did, that those words left the ink drying on his rejection letter. Contingent on my performance.

"Mr. Clark, welcome, it is nice to broaden our handler corps with a former pilot no less. Must have taken some effort on your end to get where you are?"

"I did what I had to, there's nothing special about it."

"You must've been an exceptional pilot, and you're not a new handler, though we've never had the chance to meet so far."

"It's only recently that I've been able to find a shooter. I've been able to find someone worthy, the reality of being a handler is that most of your pilots won't make it past the first engagement, particularly when you take the dare to die contracts."

"Of course, which makes your current offering so enticing."

"Whi- W4153 is a monster. There's nothing mechanical or methodical about how he fights. Frenzied is the right word. I've heard it called a number of things, free, bombastic, and even suicidal. Watching him fight is like watching a wild animal. You ever see a video of a tiger stalking its prey? That's our W4153, and you can see the grace of a hunter in the way he fights. That's something you can sell. Right from his first mission, a dare to die mission, a fatality rate of 99%, 90 seconds that's how long an average pilot survives. Not only did he live he achieved all objectives, he moved the line. He does it again, and again, no matter the mission." 

"Interesting, interesting, it certainly makes for a good story, that's why Mr. oh I'm sorry, General Fullbright wanted you yes, him and his rather unrefined but effective, and self directed efforts."

"He offered the first deal I got."

"General Fullbright is a great promoter, but of course he tends to prefer to share the stage and share his rewards with his pilots. We believe that a pilot is better utilized directly without sharing the stage with a promoter."

"I couldn't agree more."

"Well then W4153, what do you have to say for yourself? Though of course you already spoke earlier, do you want to tell us about why you'd want to be a star."

Clark looked at me. He looked up, I didn't know if he was gesturing me to go or not to go. I breathed in and stood up. Which was not appropriate but I did so anyway.

"Thank you for inviting me to this opportunity, paying for me to have this body sir. I want to be a star because I enjoy activities in the real world sir. I do enjoy battle. There is nothing I enjoy more than battle sir, but when out of battle I prefer having a body sir. I want to be a star so I can have this body more often sir. Thank you again for this opportunity sir."

The words were garbled. I meant them. Every word. I didn't know how to speak the language they wanted. I wasn't even sure I knew what they wanted. They didn't want this. I could tell. He looked me over. Like an artist looking at some virgin marble. 

"You may sit."

I sat down.

He took a moment, and turned to his co-conscpirators around the table.

"If you could please step outside for a moment, we should not be too long in our deliberations but we would appreciate if you could give us the privacy."

We all went out. I was careful to push my chair back, and I noticed that A7944 did not do the same. Clark tapped me on the back as we went out. We filed out. We stood there for a moment before Ms. Rivers turned to Clark. 

"Good to see you Clark. Potomac told me he'd been getting to know your shooter here. Seems like you found a good pilot for once."

"Please. He's got work to do. Before he'll be worth showing up there."

"I see potential in him, I'm sure they do too, even if the boy is a little rough around the edges."

I left them too it, standing at the back. Mr Smith was already talking to his pilot trying to coax the boy who was quite tall, but frail, with his grey hair, into action. The body hadn't taken to him well. 

"Poor thing." Came Tiber's voice.

I turned to him. "It was rough for me the first time too. I wasn't this bad but."

"This is my first time out here too." Tiber held his jacket. "I look pretty good don't I." Then he started to flex. "I wonder if they're going to let us talk to some girls out here. You think so?" 

"I don't know, maybe. Last time I was offered a girl."

"You? In a body like that? Picking up girls?"

"It wasn't really my choice."

He gave me a puzzled look.

"Was she ugly?"

"She was a prostitute. I think."

He looked at me again even more confused.

"Okay, an expensive one or a cheap one."

"I mean guessing from the party and the company she was probably expensive." 

"Doesn't sound like you liked it."

"I didn't. It was a reward."

"Yeah, if it happened to me it would be."

"How come?" 

"What do you mean how come? Isn't that kinda thing natural for that to be a reward?" 

There was a click from the door and Rivers and Clark rushed back. 

"Thank you for waiting, we've decided. Please take a seat."

We sat down. Seats still warm. It didn't take them long. 

"I'm so sorry Mr. Smith, we have not seen it fit at this time to extend your contract to another pilot. We will however watch A7944's career with interest and should any of our other prospective candidates fall short expect a call."

He looked surprised. So very surprised. 

"I see. Thank you for the chance sir. I'm just a phone call away."

"Very good see you soon. Ferrous should have another event soon right?" 

"That's right sir."

"Good well. See you then."

They left. 

"As for you two, Ms Rivers, we are excited to proceed to the next stage of our program, T7642 would be a great fit. Now Mr Clark, your story is impressive, there's a great deal of value in it, there are worries about the ability of your W4153 though. He has a little bit of a potentially limited perspective, but we believe that with training we would have a capable offering. The reason you two are still here is because we want to discuss a development plan, we would like a rival slant, after we introduce you two. We discussed and it seemed to be the most effective option." 

Clark looked with a smile that was becoming less practiced. "That sounds good, when are we going to start?" 

Rivers looked over, taking more of a moment to think. "I don't think we have any deployments planned soon, operations are turning more into occupation and counter insurgency at this point anyway. There won't be anything good for you to capture."

"That was our thinking too." Mr. Lovett said. "We were thinking of some accelerated simulations. What is the integrity looking like for that."

"This kid will take anything." Clark said.

"I see. Well. Do pass on his dosage requirements. It would be a pity to see our investment liquidated so soon. Your 'kid,' would require extra dilation to meet our training goals." The word kid leaving his lips with a confused kind of disdain. Like a parent putting a toy away from the middle of the room. 

"Let's see here." Rivers looked at a small laptop next to her trying to find the file. "He's within normal ranges broadly speaking."

"Excellent. Well. We'll commence tomorrow. Drivers will pick you up at 09:00 and ensure you and your assets are accompanied to the training area."

I wanted to ask about removing the bugs. I wanted space to myself. I wanted to put that smile away. Those sad conversations with Clark. At least when he was shouting at me it meant something. Not all of this. Instead I sat pretty. An offering. A tool. A weapon. Simmering beneath the surface.

"What about costs?" Clark said.

"Please send us an invoice for any travel costs, or reasonable expenses. Make sure it is itemized so we can file it correctly. Be sure to develop that habit." Emphasis placed on the final word.

"Of course sir."

It was my first time hearing sir leave his mouth. To such a mild mannered man in a suit. The kind of deference he wouldn't even show a beast bearing down on his neck. It was said so simply. As though a recognition of one's inferiority was something so simple and meaningless. A standard business transaction. 

"That concludes all matters. Is there anyone else with concerns before we finish?" 

There was a moment of silence waiting for a word to be appended to it. No words would hang from it today.

"Be ready for tomorrow."

We filed out, handler first, then pilot, and the coven of businesspeople stayed behind. 