---
title: EU Law Cases (Internal Market)
---

Articles of issue

Article 26(2) TFEU Defines the Internal Market and provides the overall justification for it. Lists the four freedoms, free movement of goods, services, capital and people. 

Article 28(1) TFEU Creation of the Customs Union "he Union shall comprise a customs union which shall cover all trade in goods and which shall involve the prohibition between Member States of customs duties on imports and exports and of all charges having equivalent effect, and the adoption of a common customs tariff in their relations with third countries."

Article 30 TFEU "Customs duties on imports and exports and charges having equivalent effect shall be prohibited between Member States. This prohibition shall also apply to customs duties of a fiscal nature."

Article 110 TFEU "No Member State shall impose, directly or indirectly, on the products of other Member States any internal taxation of any kind in excess of that imposed directly or indirectly on similar domestic products." 

Article 34 Prohibition on Quantative Restrictions on Imports or Measures having Equivalent Effect

Article 35 Prohibition on Quantative Restrictions on Exports or Measures having Equivalent Effects

Article 36 Provides situations where restrictions in line with Articles 34 and 35 may be justified. On the basis of public health or some policy grounds. (Casis also gives some criteria)

Cases on customs charges
Commission v. Italy (Art Treasures) -> Ratio, any tax that comes as a result of goods passing a border within the internal market is completely incompatible with Article 30 TFEU. This case related to the export of artworks from Italy with a tax imposed on them leaving the country.

Gaston Schul -> Good case that defines the internal market "The concept of a common market as defined by the court in a consistent line of decisions involves the elimination of all obstacles to intra-community trade in order to merge the national markets into a single market bringing about conditions as close as possible to those of a genuine internal market." 

Commission v. Italy (Statistical Levy) -> Facts, case where there was a very small nominal charge on imports, as low as necessary to maintain a government body documenting imports. Found to be in violation of Article 30, as even though the charge was nominal, any charge was found to breach Article 30 so long as it happened solely as a result of a good crossing a border. 

Donner v. Netherlands State -> Facts, Donner was ordering books from a member state and he was forced to pay the postal service of the Netherlands an extra charge on the books as they arrived. Found there was a violation between Articles 12 and 13 of the EEC Treaty, later incorporated into the TFEU 28-30 Articles. Any charge that is charged for reason of crossing a border is a violation of the articles in the treaty. Label does not matter any charge for that reason is prohibited.

Bauhuis v. The Netherlands State -> Any charge that comes purely by means of crossing a border is illegal, and cannot be considered. 

Case 18/87 Commission v. Germany -> Set out the regulations around inspections required by EU law and charges that would violate Article 30 TFEU but do not because they are about complying with EU regulations. 
1. The Charge cannot exceed the cost of the inspection. 
2. The inspections must be obligatory and uniform for all products in the EU
3. The inspections mus be required by EU law.
4. They must facilitate the free movmeent of goods by eluminating obstacles which could arise from unilateral measures of inspection adopted by Member States in aaccordance with Article 36 TFEU.

Carbonati Apuani -> Prohibition on charges even in internal barriers. Italian marble case, where there were charges within Italy regarding moving marble out of a region of Italy, and those were held to be an Article 30 violation.

Lancry -> The French Overseas territories case, where it was held that duties within France on the importation of goods from France's colonial departments into the metropole were internal barriers and therefore violations of Article 30 TFEU. 

Diamantarbeiders -> Doesn't matter the goal or the protectionist effect.

Warehousing Charges -> Charge for a service is not a charge having equivalent effect.

Cases on discriminatory taxation Article 110

Bergandi -> MS can choose to tax as they see fit.

Humblot -> But the impact cannot be discriminatory

Commission v. Ireland -> Potatoes case, found to be in violation of Article 34 when relating to third country goods (Cyprus which was at that time outside of the EU) where Ireland required licenses for Cypriot potatoes that were already cleared for sale in the UK and freely circulating. With goods being assimilated to the country they enter the EU and are cleared for customs through, in line with Article 34 TFEU. 

Commission v. Italy (Works of Art) -> Goods are defined as products which can be valued in money and which are capable as such of forming the subject of commercial transactions.

Commission v. Belgium (Walloon Waste) -> Waste can be considered goods also. 

Van Gend en Loos -> Customs duties are explicitly prohibited under Article 30 TFEU

Belgian Diamonds Case -> Charge having Equivalent Effect (CEEs) Diamonds imported into Belgium where there was a social fund for diamond workers established, were subject to a contribution so that the fund could operate. Held to be an Article 30 violation even though the charge only amounted to 0.33% of the unworked diamond. Therefore the size of the charge is immaterial. So is the reason. Any charge that arises from crossing a border within the EU. See also Statitsical Levy. 

Statistical Levy -> Qualified that the charge must have an actual benefit to the individual importer/exporter rather than the economy as a whole. 

Dassonville -> Dassonville formula, all trading rules enacted by MS which are capable of hindering directly, or indirectly, actually or potentially any intra-community trade are to be considered as measures having an equivalent effect to quantative restrictions. 

Buy Irish Case -> Found to be a violation of Article 34 by an advertising campaign encouraging consumers to 'buy Irish,' it was argued that it didn't matter because imports actually went up during the campaign, but Dassonville, actual or potential, and since there was potential then it was captured by Article 34 TFEU. 

Cassis de Dijon Case -> Case where Germany had a law prescribing a minimum alcohol content for alcoholic spirits, which Cassis fell short of (25% required, 15-20% actual) the cases held that this constituted a Measure having Equivalent Effect and was therefore captured by article 34. INdistinctly applicable measures. 

Torfaen v. B&Q -> Case about Sunday trading there was no dsicrimination against imports in any shape or for and they weren't aimed against imports, however the court held that Article 34 TFEU had been engaged. It came as a result of the Dassonville formula being very very significant. 

Keck -> Case reversed Dassonville weakening its influence and making it so that there were two categories, product bound measures that related to the characteristics of the product and labelling, and measures relating to selling arrangements. The latter category was held to be outside the scope of Article 34 TFEU. 

Alfa Vita -> The frozen bread case where bread is half baked, frozen and transported to the supermarket. Greek legislation required venders to comply with standards on traditional bakers when the bake was thawed and rebaked. This was held not to be a selling arrangement but something to do with product characteristics. 

ANETT Case -> There was a Spanish case where there was a ban on tobacco retailers importing tobacco into the country. They were required to purchase their supplies from authorized wholesalers. This measure restricted imports and was held to be a Measure having Equivalent Effect. 

Critique of Keck on the basis of being artificial and unworkable, somewhat incorporated the criticisms of Keck, by introducing the market access test. Trailers on the back of motorbikes were banned in the Italian highlands on the basis of road safety and that amounted to effectively a ban in Italy on such things. The judgement has not brought in greater clarity. 

Cassis additional -> Extra issues related to allowance for certain restrictions, predates Article 36 TFEU, they allowed certain public interest exceptions, such as prevention of tax evation, unfair competition, and promoting consumer protection.

Oebel -> Improvement of working conditions recognized as an exception.

Commissioner v. Denmark (Returnable Bottles) -> Environmental condition also recognized as an exception. 

Debate about allowing these differing exceptions to exist while Article 36 also exists. 

Denkavit and many other cases -> Establishes that the party seeking to show justification bears the burden of proof. 

Commission v. Portugal (Tinted Windows) -> There has to be some degree of consistency in the law and how it is applied and used. Case where tinted windows were banned but cars with tinted windows from the outset were allowed to be sold, therefore Article 36 TFEU could not apply.

Dynamic Medien -> There's no yardstick for morality so moral decisions are outside the perview. 

Commission v. Germany -> Measure regarding hospital pharmacies and them having to source their supplies from the same pharmacy and the pharmacy had to be near the hospital, held to be a Measure having Equivalent Effect to a Quantative Restriction, however justified in this case. Though not without scientific data. 

HumanPlasma -> Case where Austrial legislation restricted the marketing of human blood and justified under public health grounds. The measure was ultimately held to not be justified. Without scientific evidence. Though the Council of Europe was consulted in this decision.

Deutsche Parkinson Vereinigung -> Case where there was a support group for Parkinsons where members got discounts to prescription drugs from an online pharmacy in the Netherlands, and German law said that this was incompatible with fixed drug pricing in Germany. The Germans claimed it was justified to ensure a safe supply of medicinal products, to remote areas in particulary, but this was rejected on the basis that it was unsubstantiated. There was found through evidence to be no economic or scientific basis for them. Therefore not justified.

Commission v. UK -> Case where the UK claimed to need to establish a ban on poultry justified on public health grounds, abruptly banning imports of poultry from countries which did not take steps to prevent Newcastle disease. This was done during the lucrative christmas season and on that basis the court found it unjustified. Effectively a protectionist measure. 

Article 13 TFEU now applies to animals and there must be full regard to animal welfare. 

Article 110 Relates to internal taxation TFEU. Obviously internal taxation is still part of the competency of a member state so it is analyzed in terms of impact on trade.

Cofrutta -> Even if there is no domestic production it can still be internal taxation. 

Article 110(1) has two elements, the prohibition has two conditions, first the relevant imported and relevant domestic product must be similar and there must be discrimination. 

Jonnie Walker Case -> Different tax of Scotch whisky and fruit wine liqueur, the court examined if the two products are similar and they look objectively and then at customer needs, it was held in this case that they were different enough to not be similar products and thus not in violation of article 110(1).

Commission v. France (Cigarettes) -> Case where there were different internal taxation rules in France about light/dark tobacco where they should be regarded as similar, and there was discrimination because dark tobacco cigarettes were almost all made domestically whereas almost all imported products came within the least favoured category, and therefore the taxation rules were a violation of Article 110. 

Humbolt -> French car case, where taxes were higher on cars above a certain horsepower, the court saw that most imported cars belonged to the higher tax category while domestic cars didn't, even though in principle member states were able to set tax rules as they saw fit, the effect was discriminatory and therefore a violation of Article 110. 

Article 110(2) relates to competing products, the imported and domestic products must be in competition with each other, and the tax must act to protect the domestic product. 

Commission v. UK Wine and Beer -> Case where the UK tried to have different tax rules for wine, which was all imported, and beer which wasn't the court looked and was very uncertain about if these products were in competition, in the end the court said they needn't be similar it was just the competition element, and to a degree beer and wine could meet similar consumer needs and there could be mutual substitution. Therefore the court found that cheap wine and beer were in competition. Then the court investigated if the tax scheme protected beer. The court ruled that the tax system due to cheap wines being taxed higher than beer was a violation, and the stamping of wine with a luxury product got in the way of competition, therefore there was an Article 110(2) violation found. 

Systems of different taxation may not be a violation of Article 110 if done for a good reason.

Chemical Farmaceutici Case -> There were different taxation rules relating to ethyl alcohol from fermentation and synthetic alcohol from oil. Although they were based on different things they were the same chemical but the court found that the tax schemes were permissalbe provided three criteria were met. First it must be objective, secondly the differentiation must pursue legitimate objectives, third the rules must avoid any direct or indirect discrimination against imported products, or any protectionism. Therefore Italy was found not to be in violation. Public interest isn't operant here however as it would be in Article 36.

Commission v. Denmark (Cars) -> Case relating to the high taxes of cars in Denmark, there was an argument that this infringed Article 110 since cars were only ever imported into Denmark. The court found that it was not a violation since it was not discriminatory or protective in effect, though they said a claim on the basis of Article 34 could succeed. (Implication that it may do so on the basis of Zero Quota ideas)

Another case on this issue on the basis of Article 34, however the Court said that because this was internal taxation only Article 110 applied, though they did suggest that if the tax was so high it amounted to a zero quota it could be a violation of Article 34. 

Koornstra -> Dutch authorities imposted a charge on traders who moved shrimp around on a fishing boat with a Dutch flag. The charge funded shrimp processing facilities in the Netherlands. This charge existed regardless on where the ship ended up landing. The court held that if the ship landed in the Netherlands it was offset by the advantage gained but it was still a measure having equivalent effect to a customs duty (charge arising merely from a good crossing a border) and therefore it was found to be a violation of Article 30, whereas if ships landed outside the Netherlands it was an Article 110 rule with discriminatory effect. 

Gourmet International Products Case -> The court held that Swedish restrictions on the advertising of alcohol were a violation of Article 34 TFEU on the basis that direct advertizing was banned but editorial advertizing wasn't and this had the effect of discrimination since domestic alcohol had easier access to those avenues. Talked about how the measure must be proportional to the aim in order to be justified.

Mars Case -> Case where Mars chocolate advertised having +10% in their chocolates, in relation to the size, banned in Germany, which hindered the free movement of goods within the EU. Held that it was a violation and that the ban was not reasonable. 

Konsumentombudsmannen v. De Agostini -> Case about advertising restrictions. Judgement Paragraph 47 "Consequently, the answer to the question must be that, on a proper construction of Article 30 of the Treaty, a Member State is not precluded from taking, on the basis of provisions of its domestic legislation, measures against an advertiser in relation to television advertising, provided that those provisions affect in the same way, in law and in fact, the marketing of domestic products and of those from other Member States, are necessary for meeting overriding requirements of general public importance or one of the aims laid down in Article 36 of the Treaty, are proportionate for that purpose, and those aims or overriding requirements could not be met by measures less restrictive of intra-Community trade.