---
title: Contracts Cases Frustration
---

Rationale behind frustration as a doctrine:
1. Implied terms (no longer used, condition precedent continental theory referenced)
2. Avoiding unjust outcomes in the law (Lord Denning talked about this one)
3. Disappearance of the foundation of the contract (WJ Tatem ltd. v. Gamboa Spanish Civil War case)
4. Radical Change in the Obligation (A question of degree Davis Contractors ltd. v. Fareham UDC mere increase in costs against National Carriers ltd. v. Panapina ltd.)

Taylor v. Caldwell -> Old case, the theatre burns down after the contract is signed, held that there is frustration on the grounds that performance is impossible. Interestingly references Civil Law and the concept of 'condition precedent,' whereby there is held to be a condition implied in the contract regarding a specific state of affairs. 

Davis Contractors ltd. v. Fareham Urban District Council -> Post war case, labour shortages, frustration, construction and nature of the contract, where there was a contract to build 78 houses but labour shortages led to a claim by P of frustration. They also included a cover letter saying that the contract would be 'subject to labour costs,' held not to be incorporated due to a 4 month delay. The second claim of frustration also failed on the basis that the contract was not radically different by the increase in labour costs. Debate about implied terms but ultimately not decided on that grounds.

Bush v. Whitehaven Port and Town Trustees -> Deliberately distinguished from in Davis, where building work was set to begin 'at once,' but because of winter conditions being harsh they did not and it was held to be frustrated but this has been overruled by Davis. 

Krell v. Henry -> Coronation case, renting a flat for the purpose of viewing the coronation, the non-existence of the subject matter isn't the only necessary case for frustration. Talks about Roman law, and condition precedent favourably, gives the classic example of the Epsom cab driver. Gives a three stage test, first what was the foundation of the contract (and does this issue relate to it), Second, was performance prevented, Third, was the situation that arose in contemplation of the parties. Decided on the basis of implied term. 

Ocean Tramp Tankers Corporation v. V/O Sovfracht -> Case with a ship going into the Suez Canal, the Suez Crisis rendered this impossible but they could go around the Cape of Good Hope, and indeed the ship did so. Held that there was no frustration on the basis of possibility. Implied term theory explicitly repudiated within Lord Denning MR's judgement. 'The fact that it is more onerous or expensive than envisaged is not sufficient.' 

Tsakiroglou & co. v. Noblee Thorl GmbH -> Another Suez Canal closure case, found that there was no frustration so long as a reasonable route remained open to the parties. 

J Lauritzen A.S. v. Wijsmuller BV -> The super servant case. Of note "I cannot accept that a term is to be implied into this contract to the effect contended for by Lauritzen. The drafting of this contract, as of most commercial contracts, is not faultless, but it is detailed and elaborate and suggests, in some respects at least, that the parties have applied their minds to the requirements of this particular adventure." -> Bingham LJ. Equally the impossibility was self induced procluding the reliance on frustration. If the contract had specified then it would have frustrated obiter. 

National Carriers ltd. v. Panalpina (Northern) -> Found that while frustration of a lease may be possible ultimately the short length of disruption was not sufficient to frustrate a given lease. Case with a wharehouse with public access to the road, blocked by the derelecition of a listed wharehouse which prevented access to the public road. 

Paradine v. Jane -> English civil war case, insane case where the plea would have been successful, except that the Plaintiff did not plea that the invading army were aliens and they were unable to enjoy the land, and therefore was liable to pay rent on the land. 

Hirji Mulji v. Cheong Yue -> Case where a steamship was seized by the government. Frustration was found and not on the basis of the implied term 'condition precedent,' theory, and rather on a special exception that justice demands which comes from this case. Frustration arises from facts and not intention and has the effect of ceasing any and all further obligations between the two parties. 

BP Exploration co. (Libya) ltd v. Hunt (No 2)  -> This case was a case after the statute on frustration and it was also decided in the shadow of seizures of oil in Libya after the government sought to nationalize their oil. Found that there was no contemplation or discussion of risks within the contract and no implied term therefore no party could rely on anything like that and the losses fell where they may. The lower court decision gives criteria for how to apply Section 1(3) of the Law Reform Frustrated Contracts act 1943. Identification and valuation of benefit, which is impossible in contracts for transport, or if the subject matter is destroyed such that the benefit becomes useless. The emphasis is on the end product. Equally, once a benefit has been ascertained it must not be higher than the assessed benefit, and will be for the court to decide. 

Gamerco S.A. v. I.C.M./Fair Warning (Agency) ltd.  -> Guns n' Roses case where they were going to put on a concert but ultimately such an attempt failed. "The object of the doctrine was to give effect to the demands of justice, to achieve
a just and reasonable result." Lord Ratcliffe in Davis. 

"The following have to be established: (1) that the defendants incurred expenses paid or payable (2) before the discharge of the contract on 2 July (3) in performance of the contract (which is not applicable) or (4) for the purposes of the performance of the contract, and (5) that it is just in all the circumstances to allow them to retain the whole or any part of the sums so paid or payable." -> Garland J in Gamerco

Section 1(2) Is broad and the judge has discretion. Gamerco it was up to the judge. 

Herne Bay Steam Boat co. v. Hutton -> The steamship rented to look at a naval fleet manuever that was later cancelled, distinguished from Krell on the basis of the voyage still being possible (Epsom Taxi)

Maritime National Fish ltd. v. Ocean Trawlers ltd. -> Fishing case with 3 licenses for 5 boats, held no frustration due to right of election to use the 3 licenses in the completion of other contracts. 

Appleby v. Meyers -> Case where machinery was being delivered, but after being mostly made destroyed in a fire, held that the losses were irrecoverable. 

Fibrosa v. Fairbairn -> Machinery delivery case where the machines were due to be delivered to Poland. Became illegal subsequently, held that the money was recoverable on account of total failure of consideration and could not be offset against losses taken in performance of the contract while it was live. 

Bank of New York Mellon International ltd. v. Cine UK ltd. -> Failure of consideration non-operant on the basis of the covid pandemic, but since the lease could still be used in function even though the purpose was not able to be pursued use was allowed. Think Epsom Taxi. 

Tatem ltd. v. Gamboa -> Spanish Civil war case, held that there was frustration even though the risks had been contemplated by the parties. 

Salam Air SAOC v. LATAM Airlines Group plc. and Wilmington Trust SP Services Dublin ltd. v. SpiceJet ltd. -> Cases to do with airline leases under covid, held no frustration on the basis of the length of the lease (Perhaps think about this in line with inominate terms following Hong Kong fir?)

LR(FC)A 1943 -> "The court shall not take into account any sums which have become payable." Therefore no thought to insurance S. 5 affirmed in Gamerco. 

Law Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act 1943
Section 1
Adjustment of rights and liabilities of parties to frustrated contracts.

(1)Where a contract governed by English law has become impossible of performance or been otherwise frustrated, and the parties thereto have for that reason been discharged from the further performance of the contract, the following provisions of this section shall, subject to the provisions of section two of this Act, have effect in relation thereto.

(2)All sums paid or payable to any party in pursuance of the contract before the time when the parties were so discharged (in this Act referred to as “the time of discharge”) shall, in the case of sums so paid, be recoverable from him as money received by him for the use of the party by whom the sums were paid, and, in the case of sums so payable, cease to be so payable:

Provided that, if the party to whom the sums were so paid or payable incurred expenses before the time of discharge in, or for the purpose of, the performance of the contract, the court may, if it considers it just to do so having regard to all the circumstances of the case, allow him to retain or, as the case may be, recover the whole or any part of the sums so paid or payable, not being an amount in excess of the expenses so incurred.

(3)Where any party to the contract has, by reason of anything done by any other party thereto in, or for the purpose of, the performance of the contract, obtained a valuable benefit (other than a payment of money to which the last foregoing subsection applies) before the time of discharge, there shall be recoverable from him by the said other party such sum (if any), not exceeding the value of the said benefit to the party obtaining it, as the court considers just, having regard to all the circumstances of the case and, in particular,—

(a)the amount of any expenses incurred before the time of discharge by the benefited party in, or for the purpose of, the performance of the contract, including any sums paid or payable by him to any other party in pursuance of the contract and retained or recoverable by that party under the last foregoing subsection, and

(b)the effect, in relation to the said benefit, of the circumstances giving rise to the frustration of the contract.

(4)In estimating, for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this section, the amount of any expenses incurred by any party to the contract, the court may, without prejudice to the generality of the said provisions, include such sum as appears to be reasonable in respect of overhead expenses and in respect of any work or services performed personally by the said party.

(5)In considering whether any sum ought to be recovered or retained under the foregoing provisions of this section by any party to the contract, the court shall not take into account any sums which have, by reason of the circumstances giving rise to the frustration of the contract, become payable to that party under any contract of insurance unless there was an obligation to insure imposed by an express term of the frustrated contract or by or under any enactment.

(6)Where any person has assumed obligations under the contract in consideration of the conferring of a benefit by any other party to the contract upon any other person, whether a party to the contract or not, the court may, if in all the circumstances of the case it considers it just to do so, treat for the purposes of subsection (3) of this section any benefit so conferred as a benefit obtained by the person who has assumed the obligations as aforesaid.