---
title: Criminal Law Mock Exam
---

R (the defendant) faces potential liability for murder. The definition of this offence as outlined by William Coke in 1745, is "The unlawful killing of another under the king's peace, with malice afterthought," as such the actus reus element is the 'unlawful killing of another,' and the mens rea is 'malice afterthought,' common law has also defined that intent to cause grievous bodily harm creates enough mens rea for a charge of murder. 

For the actus reus we see the defendant use a piece of driftwood to knock out a stranger, and then later in the act of hiding the body throw the body over the cliffside, knocking the victim unconscious, later the victim dies after being moved by the defendant. Regarding causation there is no issue that the defendant's actions caused the death. Causation is relevant because murder is a results based offence but as it is clear enough as the parcel of the murder and D's actions did in fact cause the death. Equally there is no space to talk about breaks in the chain of causation, there is no novus actus introvenus, and forcing someone to drown is an action. Actus reus is unproblematic to establishing liability in this case. 

For the mens rea there are issues with coincidence, and transferred malice as well as establishing mens rea more broadly. To begin, there is a discussion of D's general mens rea, the mens rea for murder is intention as outlined in the definition of the offence, but it is not merely intent to murder. D's intention may not have been to murder but in line with the case of R v. Moloney, grievous bodily harm creates enough mens rea for murder. However it remains open to question if hitting someone with driftwood constitutes enough to create virtual certainty of causing grievous bodily harm. In line with the case of R v. Broughton, the case of the drugs and the festival it would depend on the facts as to ascertain if D's mens rea was to cause grievous bodily harm. That being said it is unlikely that this would be a barrier, given that driftwood is a sturdy material generally, and using driftwood as a weapon with enough force to knock a victim out indicates intention to cause grievous bodily harm. 
Next the issue of coincidence, where D's initial action very likely coincided with an intention to cause grievous bodily harm, the death occurred when D sought to hide his actions later and at that point his intention had changed from causing harm to hiding the body. There are three informative cases on this subject R v. Church, R v. Meli and R v. Lebrun. Lebrun in particular is a case of an assault with a weapon causing grievous bodily harm just as in this case, and the victim being knocked out and later killed by the defendant's actions in trying to hide the body. Courts in these cases view actions to hide the body as part of the parcel of actions relating to the grievous bodily harm and therefore the change in intention is not relevant and there is enough mens rea found for murder. Therefore the potential lack of coincidence would likely be little barrier to establishing liability for D. 

The next issue relates to transferred maliace, as the target of D's attack was not the victim, but instead another. The cases of R v. Pembliton, Agnes Gore, and Attorney General's Reference No. 3 of 1994 are all relevant in assessing what the courts look to in order to ascertain transferred malice. First of all the crime has to be the same for the malice to be transferred. In the case of Pembliton it was found that the mens rea for assault could not be transferred to a charge of property damage. However in this case D's attack was very likely intended to cause grievous bodily harm. Therefore the crime being the same transferred malice would apply and there would be no barrier to liability found in the transferral of malice. 

With actus reus and mens rea likely established next is the issue of defenses. For a charge of murder there are two possible partial defenses, loss of self control in line with Section 55(4)(a-b) in the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, and diminished responsibility in line with the Homicide Act 1957 Section 2(1A). First we will examine a defense of loss of self control. For such a defense to be established the defendant requires one of any two qualifying triggetrs, either under Section 55(3) a fear of serious violence from the victim, or things said and done under section 55(4). Section 55(3) likely does not apply in this case however the fact that the defendant is described as anxious and prone to irritability could mean that they feared the victim. Though that the defendant intended to harm a person known to him, in perceived retaliation for things said or done it seems unlikely to establish that the Defendant had a fear of serious violence, any fear would be fear of loss of reputation which is non-operant for Section 55(3). Section 55(4) is a recodification of the old provocation defense. Section 55(4)(a-b) where the defense is outlined has sections that are objective and sections that are subjective. The objective section is in (a) circumstances of an extremely grave character, which is objective, and (b) caused D to have a justifiable sense of being seriously wronged is subjective. In the case of R v. Rejimanski we see a soldier trying to claim loss of self control under Section 55(4)(a-b) on the basis of his PTSD and in this case we are given a test for how the subjectivity is applied, it can only be done so for determining that D had been wronged. Given D's issues it could be that they had a stronger sense of being wronged depending on the facts of the messages. However given that the defendant in Rejimanski was unsuccessful in their claim D is unlikely to succeed if using this line of argument specifically. The crux of the issue is about the facts of the messages and if the would be enough to qualify things said or done. In R v. Clinton and Park it was held that there was enough of a qualifying trigger from an argument surrounding adultery and therefore the character of the messages would be instrumental in establishing a defense of loss of self control. It could be established but would be contingent on the facts specifically. In terms of other barriers to a claim under Section 55(4) the attack needn't be frenzied as demonstrated in the case of R v. Islam, and there is likely no infidelity though since we do not know the particulars of the messages there could be a barrier on that front. Even though Clinton means that infidelity does not preclude a defense of loss of sself control if A's messages were related solely to infidelity that could be a real barrier to a defense. Ultimately the facts are too thin to establish conclusively loss of self control. However my judgement is that it could be very possible provided that the messages were indeed grave enough. 
The next partial defense relates to Diminished Responsibility. Generally a medical condition can be enough though there was a case where loss of sleep leading to irritability was not enough to establish a defense of Diminished Responsibility. However depression with a prescription demonstrates a medical claim which while not decisive to a defense of diminished responsibility as the judge does decide it is a crucial initial element. In the case of R v. Sutcliffe an illness wasenough to establish a claim of diminished responsibilty. In the case of R v. Osborne we are given a test regarding how we can find a relationship between the illness and the defense. The presence of a given illness does not create a claim of diminished responsibility. Law Commission gave the example of a child who played video games, killing and believing people respawn. The relationship is between the defendant being impaired and that specific impairment prevented them from understanding the nature of their conduct, as would be the case with the example of the kid playing games, to form rational judgement or exercise self control. In this case self control is the most crucial factor, as they were anxious and withdrawn as a result of their depression that could be enough to establish a claim of diminished responsibility. That being said, it is not a given that these two things are interrelated as their judgement may not have been impaired even by their anxiety or irritability. Bouts of irritability may indicate a lack of self control from a medical condition, but we simply lack the facts to establish this. We do not know how irritable D was when he was in those moods, we do not know the extent of the anxiety either and how closely related this is to his condition and it would rely on expert testimony to relate it to his condition in order to establish a defense of diminished responsibility. Therefore more facts are required but so far there is no clear barrier to a defense of diminished responsibility but the lack of a barrier does not establish a defense. 

Ultimately, D has likely been party to a murder based solely on the facts provided. Both actus reus, and causation are established. For mens rea, general mens rea is very likely to be established though not certain and it would b e contingent on other facts. Equally, the coincidence can be established based on common law. Transferred malice is also operant on the facts. However the lack of facts regarding the impairment and how it relates to alack of self control for a defense of diminished responsibility mean that it would be hard to make a defense on that. Equally lacking details on the messages on these facts alone it is hard to establish a defense of loss of self control. Therefore the likely liability is for a charge of murder, though this would be depending on other facts as they come to light. In the case of diminished responsibility expert testimony relating the condition to impairment, and in loss of self control the character of the messages themselves.
