---
title: Land Law Case Notes
---

Mortgages
Abbey National Building Society v Cann -> Acquisition mortagages take effect before registration at law

Term 2 tutorial 3 Cases
First National Securities Ltd v Hegarty -> Case where husband takes out a loan forging the wife's signature creating a beneficial mortagage on his share of the title through acting on his own interest (See Williams v. Hensman) held that where creditors pursue a husband the court will not intervene to stop the enforcement on the debt on the title. 

Ahmed v Kendrick -> Another forged loan case, held that the effect was to sever the Joint Tenancy into a Tenancy in Common, and the bank acquired the beneficial interest previously held by the husband with the mortagage not taking effect at law but only in equity.

Read -> Sarah Nield article, untested legal theory that a charge on interest might not sever the title into a Tenancy in Common, allowing continuance of the right of survivorship (LPA 1925 S. 36) provided that the charge does not take effect to sever the Joint Tenancy. 

Re Buchanan-Wollaston’s Conveyance -> Selling a piece of seaside land where the deed required the 'parties,' those who are on the Joint Tenancy, had to agree to sale of the land, could take effect overruling the specific provisions of the LPA 1925 regarding severance. It also acted to protect the original purpose of the deed, the ocean view. 

Re Citro -> Case where in the course of bankcruptcy a home with children residing had to be sold, held that exceptional circumstances had to mean exceptional in order to postpone the sale, and that ordinary hardship resulting from bankruptcy will not suffice for that purpose. 

Re Holliday -> Young children are a factory to take into account when it comes to ordering the sale of a married couple's home.

Jones v. Challenger -> Rule that the home of a married couple neither spouse can order a sale while that purpose still exists. 

Mortgage Corporation v Shaire -> Case where a husband forged the wife's signature on a mortgage yet again. Applying the Trust of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 where the existence of children was to be a consideration in bankruptcy. Explains application of that part of the act. Gives effect to the intention of Parliament that consideration is supposed to go wider and include other factors equally and weigh them. Ultimately held that the wife could take on the Husband's debt to the bank and repay it herself. 

Trust of Land And Appointment of Trustees Act 1996. Section 15 states the court must give consideration to 
(a) Intention of creatores (see Jones v. Challenger) 
(b) purpose for which the land is held (See Re Buchanan-Wollaston's Conveyance) 
(c) Welfare of Minors potential or actual (Edwards v. Lloyds TSB and Shaire) 
(d) Interests of secured creditors

Bank of Ireland Mortgages Ltd v Bell -> Case again relating to mortgages and married homes. Found that an order for sale should be brought even in the case where it wasn't certain if the wife had signed the mortgage. Found that an order of sale should be brought since the size of the debt unpaid was so large that the wife could not possibly hope to ever pay it. Should be thought of with Shaire. 

First National Bank plc v Achampong -> Found that the wife had undergone some undue influence from the husband regarding the charge she had entered into on the home she occupied with her husband. Original purpose found not to exist and the size of the debt (180,000 on a property worth 195,000) meant that an order of sale should be made. (Case where the husband took out a mortgage and pressured wife into it to raise money for a business in Ghana and then defaulted. S. 63 LPA 1925)

Edwards v Lloyds TSB Bank plc -> Another forged mortgage by the husband held that where a signature is forged the mortgage does not take effect at law but takes effect on the share of one of the title holders as part of a tenancy in common. 
