---
title: Contract Law Tutorial 3 Case Notes
---

Suisse Atlantique (1967) -> Case where a coal ship was hired and made a certain number of journys and the amount paid was per day, alleged that the ship could have made more journys if it had been loaded and unloaded more efficiently. Found that there was no right to a certain number of journys to be implied into the contract. Exclusion clauses operate unless the exclusion clause goes to the heart of the contract and an absolute right in breach. 

Glynn v. Margetson -> Case for oranges going from Malaga to Liverpool, exemption clause for deviation but the deviation led to the oranges getting damaged, held that an exemption clause cannot go to the heart of the contract. 

Photo Production v. Securicor -> Case of the security guard setting a fire while on watch to warm himself, fire went out of control and destroyed P's factory. Exemption clause in the contract. Found that the clause was about the construction of the contract and therefore the exemption clause could be relied upon. 

George Mitchell v. Finney Lock Seeds -> Cabbage case with an exclusion clause over the seeds, seeds turned out to not be good, incurring huge losses. Held that the exclusion clause was legal and operative but also in violation of the Unfair Contract Terms Act in line with Section 55 on the basis of subsequent dealings between the two parties where prior violations had occurred. 

Phillips v. Hyland -> Case with a driver and machinery and a contract excluding liability by the person behind the wheel. Found that the term at issue was in violation of UCTA 1977 specifically Section 11 Schedule 2 on account of the short amount of time not enabling the insurance to take effect.

Thompson v. T Lohan (Plant Hire) ltd. -> Case where negligence resulted in death. Found that despite the fact that negligence resulted in death the exclusion clause did operate because it sought to apportion rather than exclude liability wholly. 

R & B Customs Brokers co. ltd. v. United Dominions Trust ltd. and Saunders Abbott (1980) ltd. -> Case where someone buys a car, subsequent to the buying of the car it develops a roof leak that leads to the interior becoming mouldy and 'evil smelling,' and they reject the car. The car is bought on credit as well and for use as a company car. Held that it was a business to consumer transaction. The car needs to be used in the course of dealings to be a business to business transaction. 

Smith v Eric S. Bush -> Case where surveyor failed to see a substantial defect in a property prior to getting a mortgage for that house. The surveyor missed a significant defect with the house. There was an exclusion clause in the contract, and so there was the question of reasonability under UCTA S. 11(3). 

St. Albans City and District Council v. International Computers ltd. -> Software defect led to an overinflation of council revenues. The limitation clause failed to reach the threashold of reasonableness and therefore it could not be relied upon. 