---
title: Criminal Law Fraud
---

Source: The Fraud Act 2006

Fraud can be committed in three ways, false representation. Failure to disclose. Abuse of a position. All of them are fraud.

FRAUD BY FALSE REPRESENTATION

S. 2 Fraud one of the three fraudulent flavours. 

Section 2(1) of the Fraud Act

A person is in breach of this section if he-

(a) Dishonestly makes a false representation, and

(b) Intends by making the representation

(i) to make a gain for himself or another or

(ii) to cause loss to another or to expose another to a risk of loss

Therefore:

AR: D makes a false representation.
MR: D intends to make a gain for himself or to cause or cause risk of loss to another, and does so dishonestly (See Ivey test/Maybe Ghosh test)

Step 1: What is representation?

Idrees v. DPP -> Conviction of a person who had taken the written part of a driving test, impersonating someone else. By presenting false identification that was enough to constitute false representation. 

Section 2(2) -> Representation is false if it is 'untrue or misleading.'

Section 2(3) -> Representation can be fact or law, or to someone's state of mind. 

Whatcott -> Running a business where they referred people who needed an energy performance certificate with assessors, charging a fee to do this. The fee started out a reasonable price but reached an unreasonably high price if paid late. D then threatened legal action, and this threat was not legally actionable under contract law, therefore this was a false representation for fraud. Conviction upheld by CA.

Lambie -> Use of a credit card, by using the card they make a representation that the card is theirs, and that they are authorized to use that card. 

The false representation MUST be made BY D. Section 2(4) the reperesentation can be express or implied. 

Barnard -> Old case, wearing a gown of the university of Oxford and therefore got a discount and that counted as a false representation. 

Section 2(5) -> The false representation needn't be made to V or to anyone, it may be to a computer and V may know that it is false. It is the making of false representation which is enough to constitute the offence. 

Section 2(2)(b) -> D must know that the statement is or might be untrue or misleading. 

Augunas -> This test is subjective and a question of if D knew themselves and not a reasonable person or any other. 

This representation MUST be made with the intention to make a gain or protect against a loss! 

R v. Gilbert -> It must be shown that D intended to make a gain by making that false representation. 

If D believed that no-one would believe them and that by making this false representation they would get nowhere then that may be a defense. 

In particular argued by S. Gardner (2008) that sellers making extravogant claims could use this as a defense potentially.

Gain or loss MUST be in terms of money or property. Hurt feelings are insufficient. 

Gilbert -> D lied to open a bank account, that was not a gain or loss in itself, and it was too remote for the offence to be made out. 

Though risk of loss is sufficient. 

THERE MUST BE DISHONESTY! 

Ivey test for dishonesty perhaps? Generally sound.

BUT!

Fraud Act was passed in 2006 when theh Ghosh test was still in effect. Therefore it could be argued that Parliament intended that this would be in the act. Laird (2018a)

CRITICISM OF FRAUD BY FALSE REPRESENTATION

D Ormerod 2007 (Scholarly argument) -> Past law required V to act in line with D's false representation, now merely the false representation alone is sufficient. Issues of blameworthiness for just lying. Very wide offence and thus very open to debate.

FRAUD BY FAILING TO DISCLOSE INFORMATION

S. 3 Fraud one of the three fraudulent flavours. 

Section 3 Fraud Act 2006

A person is in breach of this section if he

(a) dishonestly fails to disclose to another person information which he is under a legal duty to disclose, and

(b) intends by failing to disclose the information-

(i) to make a gain for himself or another or

(ii) to cause loss to another or to expose another to risk of loss

Therefore:

AR: D fails to disclose information to another person which he is under a legal duty to
MR: D intends by failing to disclose to make a gain, or cause, or cause a risk, of loss to another person, and does so dishonestly

Key question is when is D under a legal duty to disclose information.

Law report explains where there is a duty to disclose 2002 -> "Such a duty may derive from statute, from the fact that the transaction is one of the utmost good faith, from the express or implied terms of a contract, from the custom of a particular trade or market, or from the existence of a fiduciary relationship."

R v. D 2019 -> D moved house and failed to notify the council of doing so, the council sued under the idea it was fraud since there was a duty. The court found no such duty to disclose and therefore there was a failure to convict under S(3) Fraud. 

White 2014 -> D who made a mortgage application didn't disclose that he was unemployed. THere was no question requiring D to make that disclosure, and there was not enough to find conviction in the end. 

THEREFORE -> Courts will look for a specific duty in order to convict under S. 3 Fraud. 

FRAUD BY ABUSE OF POSITION

S. 4 Fraud one of the three fraudulent flavours

S. 4(1) Fraud Act 2006

A person is in breach of this section if he-

(a) occupies a position in which he is expected to safeguard or not act against the financial interests of another person

(b) dishonestly abuses that position and

(c) intends by means of this abuse to 

(i) Make a gain for himself or another or

(ii) To cause loss to another or to expose another to a risk of loss

THEREFORE

AR: D abuses their position
MR: D does so dishonestly and intends by this abuse to make a gain, or cause, or cause a risk of, a loss to another

Jennifer Collins 2011 (Scholarly Argument) -> Argues that there is uncertainty on which expectations, D's expectations? V's expectations? The expectations of a reasonable person?

Law Commission what is a position with a necessary relationship? -> "The necessary relationship will be present between trustee and beneficiary, director and company, professional person and client, agent and principal, employee and employer, or between partners. It may arise otherwise, for example within a family, or in the context of voluntary work." Very broad. 

R v. Valujevs 2014 -> Charged with S. 4 fraud, they acted as unlicensed gang masters who deducted from worker's earnings and charged high rental payments and fines. The key issueu was if they occupied a position where they are expected to safeguard or not act against the financial interests of another person. The expectations are those of a REASONABLE PERSON and not D or V. 

Pennock 2014 -> Affirms that it is the expectations of a reasonable person, where a reasonable person would expect someone occupying this role to safeguard or not act against. 

R v. Valujevs cont. -> S. 4 does not apply in 'general comemrcial contexts,' 

Ousey -> D was convicted of S. 4 fraud on the basis of their being employees or ex employees of V. 
 
Choi -> Same as Ousey.

Pennock -> Abuse of the position means 'uses incorrectly,' or 'puts to improper use,' the coverage is wide and circular. 

DEBATE ON SECTION 4 FRAUD

J. Collins (2011) (Scholarly Argument) -> S. 4 fraud exists to affirm the value of LOYALTY in our society. Therefore the breadth of the offence is unproblematic. 

CPS Final Roundup -> The CPS will bear in mind 'caveat emptor,' buyer beware when bringing proceedings, and the statement earlier about S. 4 fraud not applying in a general commercial context gives valuable explaination for the offence. 

Fraud Checklist

1. Look at the section you are examining
2. If Section 2 (Making false representation) then
    a. Break down the AR: D makes a false representation.
    b. D makes a representation
    c. that representation is false
    d. Break down the MR: D intends to make a gain for himself or to cause or cause risk of loss to another, and does so dishonestly (See Ivey test/Maybe Ghosh test) 
    e. Make a gain for himself
    f. cause or cause risk of loss to another
    g. dishonestly
3. If Section 3 (Failure to disclose) then 
    a. Break down the elements of the AR: D fails to disclose information to another person which he is under a legal duty to.
    b. Fails to disclose information to another person examine sources on failure to disclose cases and law commission
    c. Under a duty to disclose examine cases and law commission to see what this means
    d. Proceed to examine the MR: D intends by failing to disclose to make a gain, or cause, or cause a risk, of loss to another person, and does so dishonestly
    e. D intends to make a gain OR cause a loss
    f. D does so DISHONESTLY examine dishonesty tests.
4. If Section 4 (Abuse of position) then
    a. Break down the elements of the AR: D abuses their position
    b. D abuses
    c. their position
    d. Break down the elements of the MR: D does so dishonestly and intends by this abuse to make a gain, or cause, or cause a risk of, a loss to another
    e. intends by this abuse to make a gain
    f. or cause a loss or risk of loss to another
    g. does so dishonestly
5. Examine defenses