---
title: Actus Reus
---

Necessary conditions for actus reus

1. FREE VOLUNTARY INFORMED ACT

2. IF NO ACT THEN AN OMMISSION WITH LIABILITY

3. MUST BE AN ACT OR OMMISSION WITH LIABILITY WITH FACTUAL AND LEGAL CAUSATION

SECTION 1 FREE VOLUNTARY AND INFORMED

Bratty -> Act must be free, informed and voluntary act is necessary to establish AR and MR. Otherwise we will get into automatism. 

SECTION 2 OMMISSIONS LIABILITY

Composed of 3 elements.

1. D is under an a duty to act (different from duty of care) for V

2. D breached the duty

3. D's breach caused harm to V

Some crimes CANNOT be committed by ommission remember if an offence can carry ommissions liability these are STATUTORY CRIMES that lay out within the AR of the statute if ommissions liability is excluded. If not excluded then omissions liability may be found. 

Ahmad -> D was charged with an offence where they were not able to do alterations to make a home inhabitable however the statute mentioned 'doing acts,' and therefore excluded omissions liability. 

Statutory duties -> Created by statute

Duties of LAW ENFORCEMENT

Dytham -> Police officer who did not protect a citizen, they are called upon to have a duty to act because of their position.

Duties arising CONTRACTUALLY

Pittwood -> Train crossing operator who failed to do his duties which led to a man's death. His ommission breached his contractual duty to act and was therefore criminal. 

ASSUMED duties

This is part of relational duties. 

Gibbins -> Automatic relational duty to act by a parent for a child. 

Emery -> A parent also has a duty to help a child when hurt by a third party

Sheppard -> No duty owed by a parent to an 18 year old daughter

Hood -> Long term partners owe a duty to act to a spouse in peril and therefore a long term durable partner could also be that. 

Nicholls -> In principle a grandparent does not have a duty over a grandchild however if they have assumed care of the child then they assume a duty to act. 

Evans -> Heroin case with the mother, they were not under a duty to act just because of their relationship but there was a duty to act because of creation of a dangerous situation, in that case provision of drugs. 

Lewis v. CPS -> Young man fell asleep and intoxicated inside a hot car and later dies but there wasn't a prosecution brought. 

Bowditch -> Two people who met outside of a nightclub start mucking about in a harbour, conviction found on the basis of an omission to help the other person after they fell into the harbour. 

Ruffell -> A friend had a dut to act for a victim who was a family friend and a guest of their house. 

R v. Stone and Dobinson -> Big case, if you remember any please remember this one. It is the case about the husband and wife and they have the husband's sister come and live with them. SHe suffered from anorexia and later died. There was an attempt by the family to get her help, but ultimately the ommission was held to carry liability as there was a duty to act. 

R v. Miller -> The other big case, homeless man with a cigarette, goes to sleep, sets the room on fire, and he leaves, which creates ommissions liability through the creation of a dangerous situation which imposes a duty to act. 

R (Jenkins) v. HM Coroner for Portsmouth -> Found that where a man was doing badly but refused medical help, his friends did not breach their duties by not imposing care upon him. Therefore in certain situations it could be said that the chain of causation is broken. THough it could also be said that there was no duty because he had refused to allow his friends and family to assume that duty. Multiple ways of analyzing the facts. 

Sing -> A landlord was responsible when he did not bring in experts when tenants complained that their gas stoves were not working well, and when a tenant died of carbon monoxide. 

The Ommission MUST CAUSE the harm

Dalloway -> D was driving a cart without proper grip on the reins, a young child ran out in front of the cart and died. However it was necessary to prove taht if he had been holding on tightly then he would have been able to prevent the injury to the child. If the ommission did not cause the death then there is no way to find liability. 

Speck -> Child who places their hand on D's genitals, and D does not remove V's hand, held to be an act and not an ommission Therefore an act or an ommission may be difficult to differentiate. 

Airedale NHS Trust v. Bland -> The life support case, it was held that stopping life support was not an act but an ommission, since the doctors are ceasing to act to prolong life and therefore it is an ommission to stop life support. A doctor cannot intentionally act to cause death to a patient, but they may stop acting. 

Situational liability

Larsonneur -> Convicted of being in the UK illegally despite the fact they had been deported there involuntarily from Ireland. 

CAUSATION 

But for causation, Duff test BUT only outlines people who cannot be found guilty through causation, and does not confirm legal causation. 

Dyson -> V was dying of meniningitis when D injured V, and from the injuries it was shown that V died before he would have otherwise because of D. 

White -> Classic lemonade poison case. V died before drinking the poison laced lemonade produced by D. Therefore there was no factual causation and AR for murder. 

Hughes -> Affirms the but for test, but it is too wide to form the basis of criminal liability. 

Wallace -> Established the legal test for causation, wether 'the accused acts can fairly be said to have made a significcant contribution to V's death.' 

Kimsey -> Must not be trifling or minimal link. 

R v. L -> More than negligable contribution to the result. 

Hughes x2 combo -> Has to be more than minimal. 

Rafferty -> Three friends hit V, and then run away, then two of the friends drowned V, the actions of the other two broke the chain of causation for the third friend. 

CAUSATION SUBPOINT BREAKING THE CHAIN

Free voluntary and informed act which renders the original act no longer a significant cause or

An act which was not reasonably foreseeable and rendered the original act no longer a significant cause

R v. Kennedy -> The free voluntary and informed act case. Case where D gives heroin to V and then leaves, then V ods, held that V's action broke the chain of causation. 

R v. Wallace -> The acid face case. D threw acid onto V's face, disfugring them and leading them having chronic pain and paralysis as  a result, then travelled to Belgium wto get voluntary euthenasia. Found causation in that case. 

R v. Rebelo -> DNP weight loss drug case where liability was found from selling them. Evidence that V had lost control of their use of the drugs supplied by D psychological addiction removed the voluntary nature of the act. 

Gnago -> Case where two men, both trying to shoot and kill the other, one of them kills a passerby and flees, the other is brought to trial. Attempt to find him guilty for causing the death of the passerby, since his shot forced the other man to act in self defense which would find causation, however on the facts both men were trying to shoot and kill each other and therefore it was a free voluntary and informed action by both. Very complicated case. 

Pagett -> Acting under a legal obligation does also not break the chain. Crazy case where D a bf kidnaps gf, V and then V is shot and killed by police who are trying to rescue her. Held not to break the chain. 

Malcherek -> Doctor switched off life support held not to have caused patien's death. 

R v. Field -> D charged with murder of V, D had befriended V to gain inheritence money and encouraged V to drink a large amount of whiskey which killed V. The encouragement by D for V to drink led to there being enough causation found and there was not a free voluntary and informed decision to drink whiskey in that case. 

R v. Roberts -> Case where D was giving V a lift, made indecent suggestions to V, threatened V and touched V's coat. V then jumped from the car causing ABH. V was not acting in a free voluntary and informed way and was induced to do so by D. The test then from this case is that V's actions have to be the reasonably foreseeable consequences of D's actions for D to be liable. 

William and Davis -> Modification of the test in Roberts, the test stands from that case as 'whether V's reaction in jumping from the moving car aws within the range ofr esponse which might be expected from a victim placed in the situation he was.' 

Lewis -> Suggested if the response might have been expected. 

Rebelo x2 Combo -> The fact that the drug was dangerous also applies here as it was reasonably forseeable that V would take too many and die. 

Tarasov -> D attacked V who hid upstairs in a room for an hour and a half, before jumping from the window and recieivng injury. Held that it was reasonably forseeable as a result of the earlier attack. 

Dhaliwal -> Husband who abused his wife into suicide was in principle able to be found to have caused the death of the wife but this was decided on other issues. 

Marjoram -> Reaction foreseeable to an ordinary person and not necessarily someone with D's characteristics. 

R v. A -> The case where a car was parked on a hard shoulder. No car lights and it was dark outside. L lost control and crashed into the car killing the passenger. Charged with death by dangerous driving for both but A appealed saying that L's action had broken the chain. However because L was not acting in a free voluntary and informed way it did not break the chain in that case. 

CAUSATION next element RENDERING D's ACTION NO LONGER A SIGNIFICANT CAUSE

Dear -> Argued that V's action to reopen wounds inflicted by D led to their death and therefore broke the chain by making D's actions no longer significant. Not found in this case since the wounds were still caused by D. Still the operating cause. 

R v. Jordan -> The exceptional case where V dies and D2's action is rendered no longer significant by substantial medical malpractice. The original wound had almost entirely healed, and the treatment was abnormal where V was known to have an allergy to a drug administered and died as a result. It is truely exceptional. 

Cheshire -> The general rule where medical negligence can apply. The Ozone fish and chip shop case. V was shot by D then V was taken into hospital and a tracheotomy tube was inserted because of breathing difficulties. The windpipe narrowed after it was performed and he died. This was a rare but known complication that could arise. Held that the treatment did not break the chain unless it was so extraordinary and negligent to do so as was the case in Jordan.

Malcherek -> D inflicted wounds against V who had to be put on a life support machine, which was later switched off by doctors. The injury was still the significant cause of death. Since you know, they died of injuries inflicted by D. 

R v. Blaue -> Thin skull rule. Jahova's wittness who refused a blood transfusion after being stabbed and then died as a result. D must take V as they find them and V cannot break the chain themselves generally. Ommissions do not break the chain of causation. 

Hayward -> Argument between D and V, D chased V and as a result of the case V collapsed and died. Evidence suggested that V was uniquely suseptible to physical stress and activity. D's act had caused the death even though they were vulnerable and therefore causation found. 

McKechnie -> Injuries inflicted by D against V led to V not being able to get treatment which killed V. Held that D's acts caused the death and therefore causation found. Ucler case. 