---
title: Defences Automatism by Reason of Insanity
---

To plead automism there are three limbs
1. They suffered a complete loss of voluntary control.
2. This was caused by an external factor.
3. They were not at fault in losing capacity. 

Automatism goes beyond just claiming that D had no MR, it goes to the point that they did not do the AR, there was no free and voluntary action in the first place. Therefore it is a total defence.

M'Naghten’s case 1843 -> The genesis of all insane automatism cases. M'Naghten rules are facts in law not medical facts and are interpretted based on the law and not medicine. It has three elements, a defect of reason, from a disease of the mind (read body). 

Bratty -> Northern Ireland case where D killed an 18 year old girl, made three pleas. 1, He was not guilty by reason of insanity from an epileptic fit. 2, He was only guilty of manslaughter since he was unable to form the requisite Mens Rea for a charge of murder. 3, He was guilty but following M'Naghten rules he was insane and thus not able to form the Actus Reus for the charge. 

"The requirement that it should be a voluntary act is essential in every criminal case. Where the defendant is not acting voluntarily they are said to be acting as an automaton and will not be guilty of an offence because both the mens rea and actus reus will not be proved," Lord Denning in the House of Lords in Bratty. 

Bratty holdings -> There are to types of automatism, sane and insane. Second that in the case of insane automatism it is a defect of reasoning arising from a disease of the mind. It must have an internal bodily cause. 

AG's Ref (No. 2 of 1992) -> Case where a truck driver entered a trance like state, which was testified with medical evidence. However the Dr. said that it was not a total loss of control. For automatism it must be a total loss of control. 

R v. Colely -> Affirms AG's Ref (No. 2 of 1992) Case where a 17 year old obsessed with knives murders neighbour with a knife. The calculated actions in changing clothes and preparing a knife demonstrate a level of composure that resist automatism. Interestingly the jury found automism initially but the AG raised it to the CA where the verdict was overturned on the basis that it was not total. 

McGhee -> Case where a man got into a fight at a newsagents while buying alcohol. He was under the influence of an anti-anxiety drug trapemezam which peeled away the ego like an onion in the words of Professor Birch. Automatism not pleaded and ultimately would have failed on the basis that it was self-induced. The third limb coming into view. 

Quick -> Case where a diabetic was suffering from hypoglycemia, and that was held to be a disease of the mind under M'Naghten rules, and therefore a plea of insane automism was avaialble and up for the jury to decide on the basis of evidence provided. Insulin is held to be an external factor and therefore leads to a plea of sane automism resulting in total acquittal. 

Hennessey -> Case where a diabetic was suffering from hyperglycemia which induced high blood pressure and therefore found a case of insane automatism. Also commenting the transient nature of depression and anxiety procluded a finding of automism on the basis that they couldn't be adequately confined if that should happen. Hyperglycemia is caused by an internal inherent defect. 

Sullivan -> Case where someone had a seizure and then kicked someone in the body and the head. Found a verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity. Permanent or transient the proper verdict is still not guilty by reason of insanity. 

Majewski -> Case where a man got into a barfight with the police. There's a rule procluding automatism in cases of self induced automatism. 

Lipman -> Case about alcoholism, where voluntary consumption would not produce automatism, but delerium tremens would lead to automatism. The self induced insanity would proclude a claim of this nature.

Burns -> Disease of the mind while intoxicated is okay. 

R v. Keal -> Case where D attacked parents and grandmother, said 'I'm sorry this isn't me it's the devil.' Wrong is on the basis of the law but not morally. 

R v. Usman -> Affirmed Keal. 

Article 5 of the European Court of Human Rights -> No one shall be deprived of his liberty save in the following cases and in accordance with the procedures prescribed by law: the lawful detention of persons of unsound mind. 

Winterwerp v. Netherlands -> Should be defined medically in order to justify confinement. 

DPP v. Haprer -> Held that insanity was not a defence to strict liability. 

Loake v. CPS -> Overturns this approach. 