---
title: Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person
---

S.39 CJA 1988 Assault/Battery

Thomas -> Touching a girl's skirt constituted battery in that case.

St George's Healthcare NHS Trust v. S -> The right to bodily integrity exists even where there are good reasons to intevene against it. Woman who was in late stages of delivery was advised to have a C-Section, she rejected that advice and the hospital did it anyway. Found that there was an assault. 

R (Kracher) v. Leicester Magistrates Court -> Finding of assualt by battery where they were sure that D had threatened V but they could not establish if D had hit V, and since D had been convicted of something different he could not be tried for the same crime twice so his appeal was allowed. 

R (Ward) v. Black Country Magistrates Court -> D was charged with common assault, but claimed he had only done battery, the court held that it could be an abreviation for assault and battery. Assault can be both but battery alone is battery. 

ASSAULT S.39

AR: D causes V to apprehend imminent unlawful force

MR: D intended or was reckless that V would aprehend imminent unlawful force

Apprehend

R v. Ireland -> Words alone can be an assault. Case with the phone calls constantly being made without D saying anything, and the court found that the potential caused V to apprehend imminent unlawful force. 

Imminent

R v. Ireland x2 -> Imminent means imminent, within the next few minutes in order to be sufficient to find assault.

Costanza -> Threatening letters and driving past V's home was sufficiently imminent as she feared that D might harm her right then as she read them since D had just posted them to her. 

From D?

Dume -> Setting an animal on someone is sufficient to be an assault. Therefore it stands to reason that threats by D that causes V to fear violence from another would constitute an assault. 

Logdon v. DPP -> The fake gun case, it was sufficient to find assault where D threatened V with a fake gun because it clearly caused V to apprehend imminent unlawful force. 

R (Kracher) v. Leicester Magistrates Court x2 combo -> A conditional threat is sufficient to find an assault. 

Tuberville v. Savage -> Language which directly negates a threat will not be an assault, in this case holding a sword and saying 'were it not the time of assize I would not take such language,' expressly was not a threat. As they did not actually threaten anything, they said they would not do anything. 

Assault generally cannot be committed by ommisison as was the issue in Fagan however,

Smith v. Superintendent of WOking Police Station -> A tresspasser standing and not doing anything could amount to an assault so long as it caused imminent apprehension of force by V. 

Venna -> Must intend or be reckless for assault to be found. 

BATTERY S.39

AR: D touched or applied force to V

MR: D intended or was reckless as to touching or applying force to V

Injury is NOT necessary see Thomas

Fagan x2 combo -> Battery can be carried out by object obviously

Smith -> Spitting

Savage -> Pouring beer both constitute battery

DPP v. Santa Bermudez -> Case where D had a needle in his pocket when asked by V during a police pat down if he had any sharp objects D said no, and V was cut by a needle and a conviction for battery was found in that case. 

DPP v. K -> D at a school put some acid in a hand dryer and V another person at the school used it and was burned. It was a battery even though there was no direct force. 

Haystead v. Chief Constable of Derbyshire -> D struck V1 who was holding a baby, V1 dropped the baby V2 which was then injured, and battery was found by D onto V2 even though D did not directly use any force against V2. 

Collins v. Wilcock -> Prostitution case. Two police officers suspected two women were soliciting for prostitution. The police tried to ask questions but the women walked away, so the police officer took hold of one of the wommen's arms, and she responded by scratching the police officer. She was convicted of assaulting a police officer and appealed the conviction as it was not done in lawful execution of police duties. The question became if the holding of the arm was battery which the court held that it was. It went 'beyond the generally acceptable conduct of touching a person to engage his or her attention,'

ASSAULT OCCASSIONING ABH 

OATPA 1861 S.47

AR: D must committ an assault or battery which causes V to suffer actual bodily harm. 

MR: D must intend or be reckless as to the assault or battery (No need to foresee the harm)

Donavan -> ABH means Any hurt or injury calcualted to interfere with the health or comfort of the victim

Chan-fook -> The harm cannot be so minimal as to be 'wholly insignificant,' 

R v. Reigate Justices ex parte Counsell -> Bruises, grazing and tenderness is ABH. 

T v. DPP -> Temporary loss of consciousness also included. 

DPP v. Smith -> Cutting a pony tail off constituted ABH there was no need to show pain as harm included any part of the body. THerefore it was an assault occassioning ABH. 

Ireland x2 combo -> Mental illnesses arising from an assault could potentially constitute ABH if a medical condition. Obiter. The assault must also cause the mental illness.

Dhaliwal -> Attempted to argue this line of reasoning but since there was no one specific mental health illness that could be found from D's conduct it was therefore too much to stretch the law. 

Roberts -> D touching V in a car, V fears for V's life and jumps from the car, and D was convicted of S.39 as a result.

Savage and Parmenter -> The harm does not need to be foreseen but there is intent or recklessness that V will suffer an assault or battery. 

MALICIOUS WOUNDING 

OATPA 1861 S.20

AR: D wounded V OR D inflicted GBH to the victim

MR: D foresaw that V might suffer some harm (not necessary to show that D foresaw the extent of the harm done)

C v. Eisenhower -> Wound means a break to the whole of the skin not just an outer layer. Also not internal bleeding.

DPP v. Smith -> GBH means 'really serious bodily harm,' 

Golding -> For the jury to decide based on contemporary social standards.

Grundy -> Many small injuries can collectively constitute GBH

Brown and Stratton -> CA allowed an appeal because the judge said that the jury should consider if V regarded the injuries as serious and this is not how GBH works. 

Bolom -> But the impact of the injury on a particular victimm should be taken into account. 

Burstow -> GBH can also include very serious psychological harm. 

Wood -> Require that the injury be either a wound or GBH but not both, breaking a collar bone would not be a wound though it may well be GBH. 

Burstow x2 combo -> although the words inflict and cause are not synonymous, they are for the purpose of S.20 offences. 

Rushmore -> Stressed that D need only see that they might cause some harm not that they would. 

R v. Savage and Parmenter -> The MR of section 20 is at issue in these cases and the level of intention. Found that throwing beer over someone's head was some risk of harm, but not the case for playing roughly with a child. 

GBH THE BIG ONE

S.18 OATPA 1861

AR: D unlawfully wounded or caused GBH to any person. 

MR: Either D intended to cause GBH or D intended to resist or prevent the lawful apprenesion or detention of any person. 

The most important element of S.18 is the MR being different. 

O'Donnell -> Intent to wound will not be sufficient in that case. 

S.20 BY DISEASE TRANSMISSION 

R v. Dica -> Where D does not know that they are transmitting an STD and they have consensual sex with V then they will not be guilty of a S.20 offence through the transmission of that STD.

R v. Kozani -> Where D does know that they are transmitting an STD and do not inform partners of the risk of transmission then it will be a crime contrary to S.20 of the OATPA.

However if D intends to transmit the disease then no amount of consent may act as a defense (See Brown)

Consent and assault

Generally following CASE of BROWN there is no consent when exceeding ABH unless there is conduct within a few categories. 

Wilson -> Man and wife this time using a hot knife to brand initials on butt, a little bit takcy. In that case consent was allowed on the basis. It was closer to the exception for body modification in that case.

Emmett -> No defense found by consent for sadomasochistic activities that take place within the confines of a heterosexual marriage.

R v. Barnes -> The injuries that take place within the general confines of a sport are fine but discussed in obiter that injuries outside of the normal range for that particular sport could be criminal. 

Dangerous exhibitions or brovado may also be consented to. 

Horseplay is another exception.

Aitken -> Ds were members of the RAF who set fire to V during a hazing ritual and that was part of the exception for horseplay.

Jones -> Ds were at a school horsing around and broke an arm, consent could also operate there. 

Surgery is another exception though

BM -> Ear/Nipple removal was not covered by this exception or by tattooing or bodily piercing. 

Religious flagellation

Inections intimiate relations are another exception

Private relationships between partners is arguably an exception as it was in WIlson but this was rejected in Emmett so probably not solid ground. 

Finally where the harm is not intentional. 

CONSENT

Express and implied consent may exist but sexual offences are more relevant with their own statutory definition to that end. 