---
title: Mens Rea
---

Intention is to be given its ordinary English meaning, and is about establishing blameworthiness for a given crime. 

INTENT IS GENERALLY TO BE GIVEN ITS ORDINARY ENGLISH MEANING

R v. Moloney -> It should be left to the jury's 'good sense,' to decide whether the accused acted with the necessary intent. Unless the judge believes based on the facts that some further explaination is necessary. 

Ogunbowale -> Karate kick to the back of the head was sufficient to find intention since D demonstrated a desire to cause serious harm in that case, and therefore the judge at first instance gave no direction other than 'did D intend to kill V.' 

Cunliffe v. Goodman -> Lord Asquith intentin 'connotes a state of affairs which the party indending does more than merely contemplate: it connotes a state of affairs which on the contrary he decides so far as in him lies to bring about.' 

Duff test is a good margin note but be careful the means and the ends do need to be clarified, as even if they don't intend the means the fact that they use the means to gain the ends needs to be analyzed. 

S.8 Criminal Justice Act 1967 -> Just because D foresaw death as a likely result does not mean that they intended death. (Also an element in Moloney) 

Hales -> D ran over a police officer in attempting to escape it was not his motive to kill ethe police officer but the fact that D was 'prepared to kill in order to escape,' demonstrated intention to kill. 

Borderline cases do arise where we can depart from the ordinary English meaning as was the case in Moloney. 

R v. Woolin -> Big case, about the baby being thrown against a hard surface. Virtual certainty test in this case. Was the outcome a virtual certainty from D's actions, if yes then MR found if no then no MR. Also useful in murder since MR for GBH and death. D also had to realize that this outcome was virtually certain. 

R v. Broughton -> Demonstration of the virtual certainty test where a doctor saying that a 90% chance was nont high enough to find MR through virtual certainty. 

Matthews -> Still a question for a jury even if all of the questions in Woolin are answered in the affirmative. 

Nedrick -> Lord Steyn 'A result foreseen as virtually certain is an intended result.' However not folloowed in the directions in WOolin and Matthews, where it was required in fact to be virtually certain and that D realized this. If it was factually not virtually certain but D viewed the result which occured by their actions as virtually certain then conviction could not be found. 

Nicklinson v. MoJ -> Medical pain relief and doctrine of double effect stands as an exception to this, they may not find intent even where death is the virtually certain outcome fo a doctor giving pain relief as 'the purpose of the treatment is to relieve pain and suffering.' 

INTOXICATION AND INTENT

Majewski -> Only 'basic,' intent can be found and not specific intent, specific intent is part of specific crimes.

Moloney x2 combo -> Shooting competition with father, shoots and kills, but claims intention to win the competition and not shoot and kill, and the intoxication made that intention to win more believeable and therefore the MR was not found, it was defeated. 

RECKLESSNESS 

Cunningham recklessness

1) D was aware that there was a risk that their actions would cause a particular result

2) The risk was unreasonable for D to take. 

Cunningham -> Recklessness 'the accused has foreseen that the particular kind of harm might be done and yet has gone on to take the risk of it.' Therefore you must do two things to establish recklessness, 1, that D foresaw a risk, and 2, it is about if D themselves saw the risk. 

Stephenson -> D suffered from schitzophrenia lit a match near a haystack and it burned away. Because of his illness there was no realization that lighting a match led to a risk fo the haystack. But D did not therefore no recklessness. 

R v. Parker -> Smashed up a telephone box in anger and was held by the court of appeal to have been reckless, his mind was closed to the obvious consequences. 

Foster v. CPS -> Found that it was not enough to show that if D had stopped to consider the risk, D had to actually foresee the risk. 

Brady -> At a club overlooking a dance floor D gets on some railings that fall and cause serious injury to V. It was held that by getting onto the railings D had realized a risk that D could harm someone else which is sufficient for recklessness. 

Caldwell recklessness

Now abolished

1) D was aware of a risk OR

2) There was an obvious and serious risk and D had failed to consider if there was a risk or not. 

Elliott v. C -> Case of the kid with learning difficulties who sets fire to a shed Guilty of criminal damage. Even though D was incapable of foreseeing a risk. 

R v. G and R -> Two kids set fire to newspapers which burned down a supermarket. They were convicted based on Caldwell recklessness being an objective standard. However the court abolished this standard through their actions. 

Confirmed to be abolished for all crimes in AG's ref no. 3 of 2003.

NEGLIGENCE 

Part of gross negligence manslaughter so see that later.

INTOXICATION

1) Intoxication may provide evidence that D lacked the MR. 

2) Prosecution may rely on it to establish MR

3) Some crimes refer to intoxication directly

D's who are involuntarily intoxication will lack MR if proven. 

D's who are voluntarily intoxicated can try to use the intoxication as evidence they lacked MR in crimes of specific intent but not basic intent. 

Majewski -> Basic and specific intent distinguished and established WHere a crime requires a specific intent then they cannot be done while intoxicated. 

R v. Heard -> D was intoxicated and rubbed their genitals against V, a police officer, and the judge found taht it was voluntary intoxication and a crime of basic and not specific intent. However generally seen as an exceptional case based on the facts. 

Magee v. CPS -> Public policy was the reason why someone could be convicted of failing to stop after an accident even if they drunk and believed there had been no collussion. 

Bowden -> A drunken intent is still an intent.

KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF

Some crimes require D to have knowledge for example handling stolen goods. 

Reader -> Belief that property might be stolen is insufficient. However some kind of knowledge is required. 

TRANSFERRED MALIACE 

Agnes Gore -> Apothecary case, guilty of murder.

Pembliton -> Case where a man threw a stone intending to kill but breaks a window, no trasferred maliace, it must be the same case. 

Latimer -> Transferred maliace found. 

AG's Ref no. 3 of 1994 -> The case where D stabbed pregnant V1, injures V1 and causes injury to the baby (V2) that lead to them being born in a bad state and dying. House of Lords held that it could not be transferred from one living person to a someone who was not a person yet. Nor could it be transferred twice, but it could be found through manslaughter there was no need to show an intent to injure any one person.

COINCIDENCE

Meli v. R -> Struck a man on the head and thought V was dead, however V died from the fall not the attack. Difficulty in establishing coincidence. PC held that so long as it was one transaction then it could be found. Part of a plan to rob someone. 

R v. Church -> Killing someone later after assaulting them but the intention created enough mens rea "The gravity of the injuries inflicted during life clearly pointed to an intention by the appellant to cause grievous bodily harm."

Le Brun -> No plan but since it was all part of one transaction to kill his girlfriend striking her with a weapon that was not found, then there would be a coincidence. Struck V, then dropped V later, and the fall killed V even though D argued that there was no intent to kill V at the time and the intent was to hide the body it was held that there was a coincidence of intent and action. 

Fagan -> The police car case and the big one with coincidence. Found by the court that there was a coincidence through the metaphor of stepping on someone's foot. So even when he turned the key to turn the car off it was as though he was still acting to press on the foot. 

AG's Ref. No. 4 of 1980 -> Found that there was a sequence where it could not be established which act killed V, so long as D had the MR at the time each of the possible acts that could have caused the death, was sufficient. 