---
title: Unlawful Act Manslaughter
---

Unlawful Act Manslaughter

AR: D committed an act that is (1) Unlawful (2) dangerous (3) caused death of V
MR: D had the MR for the original unlawful dangerous act

AG's Ref No. 3 of 1994 -> Case where D stabbed a pregnant mother, the injuries led to the foetus who was wounded in the fight dying shortly after birth. Found that the AR was made out by Lord Hope. You can mention unlawful and dangerous here as well. 

"The only questions which need to be addressed are (1) whether the act was done intentionally (2) whether it was unlawful, (3) whether it was also dangerous because it was likely to cause harm to somebody and (4) whether that unlawful and dangerous act caused the death."

UNLAWFUL ACT
Dhaliwal -> Not an unlawful act because being abusive to a wife and causing her severe emotional trauma even to the extent she took her own life, the initial act was not unlawful and therefore conviction failed. It must be unlawful, ie an act that is a criminal offence. 

R v. JF and NE -> Does not need to be proven that D knew there was any risk of harm. There needs merely to be an act which is UNLAWFUL and DANGEROUS. 

Andrews v. DPP -> Death by dangerous driving is also not inherently criminal enough to find an unlawful act. Since D was doing a lawful act only with a lack of care which the legislature made criminal. 

Meeking -> Suggested that a negligent act could form the base of unlawful act manslaughter. 

Alliston -> Cyclist who hit a pedestrian by accident and killed. He was conficted of furious and wanton driving contrary to S. 35 of the OATPA 1861. The judge left to the jury the issue of unlawful act manslaughter and they ultimately did not convict. 

Senior -> D failed to summon medical help for his child who died. This was manslaughter. 

However in

Lowe -> D also failed to call for medical assistence for a dying child. CA held that there was no guilt for manslaughter. Argued that unlawful act manslaughter cannot be based on ommission. 

Richard Taylor (Scholarly argument) -> Holds that the distinction is faulty. It is not that there is a definintive ruling that unlawful act cannot be caused by an ommission. Rather that ommissions usually lead to Gross Negligence Manslaughter instead. 

Lamb -> Actus reus and mens rea of the base offence MUST be satisfied to establish that there was an unlawful act. Revolver spinning case. 

DANGEROUS ACT

Carey -> Must be some risk of physical injury. A shock could be included as physical harm in the sense of jumping out on someone as in that case. Though Ireland ABH may include mental injuries so this is open for debate but obviously contradicted by Dhawali.

Johnston -> Spitting at a heatlhy victim could not be dangerous even if it is an unlawful act which causes death. It is insufficient to meet that threshold of a dangerous act.

R v. JF and NE -> The harm is to be looked at objectively and D does not need to be aware that their act was dangerous. It is what a reasonable person in D's shoes would think was dangerous. 

Dawson -> D approached a petrol station with a gun and the place was staffed by a 50 year old man. V then suffered a heart attack and died. 

JM and SM -> Ds got into a fight with bouncers outside a club. One of the bouncers suffered a heart anuerism and died. The conviction was upheld. The fight created a risk of harm and it didn't matter about the link. 

R v. JF and NE -> CA confirmed the law in Dawson but suggested Parliament may reform. 

Bristow -> Bulgary of an isolated vehicle from a repair shop was dangerous on the basis that if the burglars had been interrupted they had planned to escape by means of dangerous driving and this posed a risk. It was not the criminal act but the response and therefore this decision is open to critcism.

R v. Carey again -> D punched the victim but it was not the act that caused V's death, it was D's aggressive behaviour, an affray which caused V to run away and die of a heart attack. The affray was not dangerous because it was not likely to cause physical harm. Therefore no grounds for conviction.

CAUSED DEATH

Cato -> D supplied unlawful drugs to the victim and then injected the victim with the drugs and the victim died as a result. CA says that possession is an unlawful act. However the possession did not cause death. CA suggested alternatively that poisoning under S. 23 of the OATPA was what caused the death. The unlawful act must cause the death. 

Invoke the causation cases here. 

AG's Ref No. 3 of 1994 -> The unlawful act does not need to be aimed at the victim at all. 

Checklist for Unlawful Act Manslaughter

1. Was there an unlawful act?
    1. Important to ask if it is an 'inherently criminal,' act or merely a lawful action done incorrectly such that the legislature deems criminal (Andrews v. DPP)
    2. The unlawful act may perhaps be done by ommission but this is open to debate
    3. Did D have the mens rea for the unlawful act
    4. D does not need to have the MR for murder or manslaughter just the MR for the base unlawful act
2. Was this unlawful act dangerous?
    1. Dangerous in that it has some risk of harm inherent to it, can be mental or potentially physical (Ireland obiter)
    2. Generally physical harm
    3. D does not need to apprehend a risk of physical harm from their conduct
3. Did this unlawful and dangerous act cause the death
    1. Standard causation rules apply here