---
title: Attempts
---

Governed by Section 1(1) of the criminal attempts act. More than merely preparatory to the commission of the offence they are guilty of attempting to commit the offence. 

MENS REA DEBATE

Pearman -> Intent in the criminal attempts act means the same as in common law. Ordinary English meaning generally. 

R v. Khan -> Attempted rape of a 16 year old where the judge said that an attempt could be found with a çould not care less,' attitude. Argued and dismissed that they needed the full intention to have sex with the victim without consent. 

R v. Pace and Rodgers -> Scrap dealers who were convicted of trying to turn the proceeds of a crime into scrap. It transpired that the scrap had been placed there by the police as part of a sting operation. The offence required that D suspected the property was stolen, but it was argued if the mens rea was the same as required for the full offence or was direct intent required. Held that it required direct intent and not corresponding intent to the main offence. 

Debate about pace and rodgers held against Khan. 

Dyson 2014 SCHOLARLY ARGUMENT -> Pace and Rodgers will be seen as a 'flash in the pan,'

Child and Hunt 2014 SCHOLARLY ARGUMENT -> Or Khan has been overruled in its entirity

Virgo 2014 SCHOLARLY ARGUMENT -> Or Pace applies for impossible attempts and Khan applies for possible attempts. 

Simester 2015 SCHOLARLY ARGUMENT -> Supports the verdict in Pace because attempt should mean that trying to actually do something is the crime. 

ACTUS REUS

More than merely preparatory

R v. Geddes -> The man in the school bathroom with rope and masking tape. Appeal allowed, on the basis that his acts were not more than merely preparatory, and that those words should be given their ordinary English meaning. 

Toothill -> The attempted burglary case from knocking on D's door, indication that there has to be a confrontation between D and V and therefore the offence requires that to be made out. 

IMPOSSIBLE ATTEMPTS 

Taaffe -> Imported foreign currency believing it was illegal when it was not, since there was no legal crime and it was legal impossibility then the offence could nont be made out. 

Impssibility through ineptitude will still be a crime. 

PHYSICAL IMPOSSIBILITY

S.1(2) and S.1(3) Criminal Attempts Act 1981 -> The facts are as D believed them to be

Shivpuri -> D attempts to import drugs but it is ultimately just vegetable matter and harmless other plant articles, found that he had still attempted even though there was physical impossibility.