---
title: Criminal Law Sexual Offences
---

Sexual Offences Act Section 1(1) Rape

AR: D peentrated the vagina, anus or mouth of V with his penis and V did not consent to the penetration

MR: D intended to penetrate the vagina, anus or mouth of the victim with their penis and D did not reasonably believe V consented to the penetration.

Did V consent? Did D think V was consenting? Look at this, then look at Section 76, presumptions, then look at Section 74.

Secction 76 Conclusive Presumptions about the act 3 limbs

1. There must be deception
2. The deception must be intentional
3. There must be deception as to the nature or purpose of the act. 

R v. Jheeta -> Sexual relationship but D anonymously sent threatening text messages to V. She consulted D and he suggested contacting the police. Then D sent V messages acting as though he was the police encouraging V to have sex with D. This went on for a number of years. Appeal dismissed found guilty, though no relevance of S. 76, but relevance under S. 74.

R v. Flattery -> Case where D convinced V he was doing a surgical intervention on her when he was in fact having sex with her. Rape found. 

R v. Williams -> Case where D acted as a singing teacher and under the guise of breathing excercises had sex with V. Rape was found. 

R v. Lineker -> The prostitute refusal to pay case, where he refused to pay and it was found not to be rape, section 76 does not apply and instead fraud does. 

R v. Devonald -> Case where a dad got revenge on his daughter's ex boyfriend by posting as a woman and persuading V to masutrbate on webcam and record it. Tried on section 4 of the sexual offences act, invoking S. 76 concerns because of the nature or purpose of the act. Dad was found guilty on the basis of S. 76 nature and purpose. 

R v. B -> Case where D posed as someone else, and forced V under those false scenarios to make sexual content and threaten her to do so. Found not to be a violation of S. 76 as V knew the nature and purpose of the sexual act. However S. 74 upheld. Jheeta upheld. 

Tabassum -> Breast examination case, they were found to be decieved as to nature. It would be different if he were doing a real research project and therefore not S. 76, but perhaps S. 74. 

Assange v. Swedish Prosecution Authority -> Deception found on the basis of sex with a condom it would not affect the nature of the act so no S. 76. 

R v. EB -> HIV case found not to go to the nature and purpose of the act. 

S. 76(2) Impersonation

Elbekkay -> Case where D entered V's bedroom, V presumed it was partner and has sex with D, D realizes but has sex anyway. D did not impersonate and therefore no room for impersonation. However there was liability for rape under S. 74 as V consented to intercourse with partner and not D, therefore no consent. Mistake of identity extends from just married couples to partners on the basis of this case. Important to remember.

Impersonation must be someone known to V. It would not apply to film star or pop star, or an attribute that D lacked. 

Impersonation seems to apply even if V is not taken in by the impersonation. 

Richardson -> D tried to act like a legitimate dentist when in fact D was not. Patients who recieved treatment were not mistaken to identity, but attributes. So consent was found. However in some cases attribute may become identity. 

Melin -> Case where D was giving botox injections with no medical qualifications. Held not to consent to treatment creating liability under S. 20 Offences Against the Persons Act 1861. 

S. 75 evidential presumptions about sex. 

S. 75(2)(a-b) Violence and fear of violence being used against another person will vitiate consent. V was unlawfully detained. V was unconscious or asleep. V was unable to communicate consent or not due to disability. V had a substance administered by any person, which let them be stupefied or overpowered. These actions vitiate consent if done immediately before the first sexual act. 

R v. Ciccarelli -> Case where D performed a sexual assault against V while V was asleep. 

Lartner -> V was asleep and therefore could not consent, consent held to be a positive action.

Malone -> V was so drunk unaware that D was ahving sex, the AR was still found. 

McFall -> Resistance not necessary, the question is if V consented. 

S. 74 limitations on who can consent. 

Children under 16 cannot under any circumstances consent. 

Mental disorder or learning difficulties lack the mental capacity to consent in the first place. 

A Local Authority v. JB -> Case that listed the matters that must be understood by someone to give capacity to consent. Sexual nature and character and mechanics of the act. Capacity must remain throughout. That they can say, yes or no and realize that capacity. Can realize the risk of pregnancy. Knowledge of the health risks involved.

However Gillick competency may allow for a defense of rape and allow to rebut the children under 16 part, but would still lead to liability under one of the other sections of the act. 

R v. Bree -> Drunkenness case where they all drank, and she blacked out and sex was done to her while black out drunk. She did not say no, and it was argued she undressed herself and showed the signs of consenting. Appeal was allowed on the basis that alcohol consumption in itself doesn't vitiate consent, and drunken consent may still be good consent. They may still have sufficient capacity in light of that. 

R v. Olugboja -> Met at a disco, and D agreedd to drive V home, but in fact they drove to D's own home, V refused to go in and walked away. D dragged V to the bedroom and then said D was going to have sex with V. D was charged with rape, and the fact that V did not struggle was immaterial in finding that in this case. 

R v. Kirk -> V aged 14 ran away from home and went to have sex for money. She agreed and then used the money to buy food. No freedom to make the choice found. 

Ali -> Grooming may negate consent sometimes. 

R(F) v. DPP -> A woman used judicial review to seek justice for her partner who had agreed not to ejaculate inside when in fact he did. Satutory rape found in this case, as the consent and the additional qualification was tied to the act itself. 

R v. McNally -> Gender deception case. D claimed to be a boy when they were not that. Assault by penetration once the truth of gender was found out. No consent found under the basis of S. 74. 

R(Monica) v. DPP -> Police deep cover case, JR for rape on the basis of deception as the police officer was having sex under infiltration. Application dismissed on the basis that there was consent and no deception. 

R v. Lawrence -> The vasectomy case 'had the snip years ago,' when in point of fact he had not, but consent was found on the basis that the lie was not capable of vitiating consent. THe court rejected the 'but for,' test. THe courts have rejected that view that only those mistakes which are to nature and purpose or impersonation can negative consent. Mistake can negative consent sometimes. But those mistakes must be those that are very closely related to the act of sex. Mistakes related to the sexual act, and mistakes that are about the backkground of facts. 

R v. Gabbai -> Allegation of anal rape, when only vaginal intercourse was consented to. Trying to avoid the MR, but MR was still found. 

MR -> Reasonable belief of consent. 

R v. Thomas -> Cuck case, question of objective believe that V consents. D was told to have sex with V, while husband who had a short temper watched. Question over consent in that case.

R v. B -> the schitzophrenia case where he believed having sex would heal sickness. A delusional state of mind could cause a genuine belief in consent though this is more a question for insanity and automatism. 

Section 2 Assault by Penetration. 

Much in common with rape but is broader and is any kind of penetration and not penetration with a penis specifically. 

Section 3 Sexual Assault

AR: D touches V sexually and V does not consent
MR: D does not reasonably believe V consents

S. 79(8) Furnishes the definition, 
Sub-subsection (1) it must involve touching through anything with anything.
Sub-subsection (2) it must be sexual which means the circumstances are sexual and the purpose is sexual. Or because of the nature of its circumstances of any person in relation to it is sexual. 

Court 1989 -> Shoplifting case, hitting a girl who is wearing shorts, saying that he believed her to be shoplifting and was as a result administering punishment. 

AG's Ref (No. 1 of 2020) -> D sat down next to V on a train and kissed her on the mouth. He had heard someone making derogatory remarks about V so D said they intended it as a gesture of support. Judge ruled prosectuion had to prove D's intent was sexual and he was initially acquitted. However Court of Appeal reversed and said that it is a reasonableness standard and objective observer. 'It may be sexual.' 

R v. Abulahi -> Case where D was arrested and examined by nurse. D touchhed nurse's breast and argued it was accidental. Obviously and inevitably sexual, considered that touching breasts is therefore always sexual touching. I agree with this ruling. 

Section 4 Causing Sexual Activity Without Consent. 

Grout -> CA suggested that conversation or exchange of texts could amount to sexual activity. Think ERP. 

Sexual Offences Checklist

1. Find the actus reus
2. Examine which section is engaged
3. Examine the mens rea
4. Examine defenses