---
title: Criminal Law Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person Notes
---

Assault is contained within the Offences Against the Persons Act 1861

Section 39 Assault/Battery

R v. Thomas -> Touching a girl's skirt was battery

R(Kracher) v. Leicester Magistrates' Court -> D charged with assault by battery because the court couldn't find enough evidence to prove that they hit someone but they did find enough that they had threatened that person. He was charged with battery and so could not ultimately be tried for common assault. This case also found that a threat by D that they would 'beat up V if they come back,' was held to be enough to be an assault. 

R(Ward) v. Black Country Magistrates Court. D charged with common assault, but claimed that he had only done battery but assault was seen to mean assault and battery therefore conviction found. 

Assault Actus Reus 'D caused V to apprehend imminent unlawful force.' 
Assault Mens Rea 'D intended or was reckless that V would apprehend imminent unlawful force.' 

R v. Ireland -> Makes clear that words can be assault, in this case a man called a woman and said nothing on the phone. This was held to amount to assault and meet all the elements, V did apprehend force, through a threat of violence, and was concerned it would be imminent because of the silence. 

Pouring away necessary medication would not be assault since it is not violence against the body. 

Imminent does mean imminent. Remember this.

Logdon v. DPP -> Classic case with a fake gun used to take a hostage. It was assault because it's about the victim's own apprehension of violence and not anything else. Even if D didn't intend to make good on his threat and the gun was fake he was guilty of an assault. 

Tuberville v. Savage -> Case with the sheathed sword case 'were it not assize-time 'the time sitting in court,' I would not take this from you,' were held to not be a threat, or an assault, or enough to constitute the defense of provocation. It was interpretted by the court as being a direct statement that no harm will befall the other person. 

Fagan v. DPP -> This case again. Assault can't be committed by ommission so the court bent over backwards to find it as an action. 

Savage and Parmenter -> It has to be shown that D foresaw the apprehension of unlawful force. Intent or recklessness. 

Battery Actus reus: 'D touched or applied force to V,'
Battery Mens Rea: 'D intended or was reckless as to touching or applying force to V,'

DPP v. Santa Bermudez -> Case where a police officer was searching someone, asked if they had any sharp objects, said no, and it was found there was a needle in their pocket which pricked the police officer. Was held to be battery on the basis that 'where someon creates a danger and thereby exposes another to a reasonably foreseeable risk of injury which materialises, there is an evidential basis for the actus reus of assault occasioning actual bodily harm.' 

DPP v. K -> Schoolboy put acid in a hand drier, and another pupil used it and was hit by acid, found battery even though it was indirect. 

Haystead v. Chief Constable of Derbyshire -> D hit a woman holding her baby, and she dropped the baby, it was held that D had committed battery against the baby he had caused unlawful force to be applied to the baby when the baby hit the floor. 

In Ireland there was no battery because battery must mean touching. 

Collins v. Wilcock -> Two women suspected by police of soliciting for the purpose of prostitution. Police officer took her arm and pulled hard. She was convicted of assaulting a police officer when she scratched him in resposne. The question was if grabbing was a battery. Found to be battery ultimately. 

Implied consent, and necessity may defeat battery. 

Lord Goff F v. West Bers Health Authority 'all physical condact which is generally acceptable in the ordinary conduct of everyday life.' 

R v. Nelson -> The distinction between Assault and Battery should be taken seriously. 

(Scope for research here)

Section 47 Assault occasioning Actual Bodily Harm

Actus Reus: D must commit an assault or battery which causes V to suffer ABH
Mens Rea: D must intend or be reckless as to the assault or battery (No need to prove intended/foresaw ABH)

1. Assault must be shown
2. The victim must suffer ABH

R v. Donovan -> ABH means 'any hurt or injury calculated to interfere with the health or comfort of the victim. 

R v. Chan-Fook -> The harm doesn't need to be permanent but it must be 'not be so trivial as to be wholly insignificant.' 

R v. Reigate Justices ex parte Counsell -> Brusings, grazes, the causing of tenderness is sufficient for ABH.

T v. DPP -> Temporary loss of consciousness also sufficient for ABH. 

CPS Guidelines on ABH -> 'the fact that there has been significant medical intervention and/or permanent effects have resulted.

DPP v. Smith -> Cutting a ponytail sufficient to meet ABH.

R v. Ireland -> Obiter, psychological injuries could meet the threshold of ABH but only if they were recognized medical conditions

Morris -> Brain is included in the body and therefore psychological injuries count, though in that case insufficient because not recognized medical condition. 

Section 20 Assault occasioning Grievious Bodily Harm

Actus Reus: D unlafully either wounded V or inflicted GBH to V
Mens Rea: D foresaw V might suffer some harm

C v. Eisenhower -> Wounding is a break in the continuity of the whole skin. 

M'Loughlin -> Outer skin alone is insufficient to constitute wounding. 

DPP v. Smith -> GBH is 'really serious bodily harm.'

William Wilson -> Argument that wound can only occur through direct application of force (It equally lacks the language in the statute of 'by any means whatsoever,' found in S. 18). However the words do say 'either with or without any weapon.' Therefore there is room to doubt. The courts could go either way.

DPP v. Smith -> 'Really serious bodily harm.'

Hill 2015 -> For the jury to decide GBH

Golding 2014 -> For the jurty to decide with reference to 'contemporary social standards.' 

Grundy 1977 -> Punching someone all over so they were bruised all over was held to be GBH even though each individual punch was not, the totality of harm matters. 

Brown and Stratton -> The victim held the injuries to be serious, this is insufficient to find GBH, the jury decides.

Bollom -> Impact objectively is important for a finding of GBH, what is GBH for a baby might not be for a grown man. 

Burstow -> Very serious mental harm can also constitute GBH but it must be very serious and a recognized condition.

Caselaw disagreement Clarence 1888, inflict in S. 20 meant more than merely cause even though there is no need for an assault, whereas in Burstow it was held that cause and inflict weren't synonymous, for the purpose of the act they were. It was said in Burstow as well, that inflict does not require force. 

Rushmore 1992 -> Held that there need only be some harm foreseen and not GBH, it is enough if D believed they might even inflict some harm. So very loose standard. 

Savage and Parmenter -> Two cases, one where a woman becomes D for that case empties a glass of beer over another woman, dropping it, it breaks cutting V, and another case a father who becomes D this case, playing vigourously with his child, V. Found that there was no need foresee the specific harm in this case. 

R v. Roberts -> Man who takes a woman in his car, starts making comments threatening her, she jumps from the car which is going at speed and sustains ABH, D must have foreseen that V might suffer harm from the comments, and therefore that was sufficient to find a S. 47 claim. 

Section 18 GBH with intent (The big one)

AR: D unlawfully wounded or caused GBH to any other person
MR: Either, D intended to cause GBH or D intended to resist or prevent the lawful apprehension or detention of any person.

S.18 requires specific intention whereas S. 20 requires much lighter forms of intention, either some harm or recklessness. 

O'Donnell 2010 -> An intent merely to wound will be insufficient to return S.18 GBH

D can only be convicted of GBH if he was intending to prevent or resist arrest, recklessness can apply here. Level of harm left open, Morrison 1989, and then to resist or prevent lawful arrest. It doesn't matter what D thought about the arrest if it was unlawful or not. 

Self harm could be a S.18 offence. Any person, and not any other person in the act, so arguable. 