---
title: Complicity
---

Step 1 Assess who is the principal and who is the D when assessing their liability!

R v. Gianneto -> Case where R made threats to J and paid W to kill J, and R was arrested after J's death. The prosecution could not establish who had committed the murder. It was unclear and therefore there were issues in deterimining who was the principal. Liability was found in this case even for just making threats about his wife. 

Innocent agency, where someone is in a crime scene but is not the principal and has no knowledge or ties to the crime other than being within it. 

Michael 1840 -> A woman wished to kill her baby so put it into the care of a nurse with a vial of poison to inject without telling the nurse what it was, the nurse decided not to inject and left the poison. The poison was then injected into the baby by a passing child. Both the child and the nurse were innocent agents as even though they were part of the crime in administering the poison they had no knowledge and were entirely innocent. 

Stringer and Banks -> Employer at an accountancy firm told his employees to do actions which the employees did not know were fraudulent and therefore the employees are found to be innocent agents, even though they did meet the conduct of the crime. There is a serious failure of mens rea which is a barrier to prosecution. 

D. Omerod (Scholarly argument) -> Some crimes such as rape or bigamy cannot be committed through an innocent agent ever. When the principal committs a rape through an innocent agent it suggests that the rape was removed by the person of the innocent agent, where in fact the innocent agent directly committed the offence. It is difficult to imagine them not having knowledge or having committed the offence as directly as possible. 

Section 8 Accessories and Abbettors Act 1861

"Whosoever shall aid, abet, counsel, or procure the commission of any indictable offence whether the same be an offence at common law or by virtue of any act passed or to be passed, shall be tried, indicted, and punished as a principal offender." 

AR: D aids, abets, counsels, or procures commission of any indictable offence will be liable for that offence. 

MR: D does their acts of assisstence intending to assist P in the commission of the offence. 

Jogee -> Big landmark case. Established a kind of mens rea in complicity cases. 

ACTUS REUS

S. 8 has three elements. 

1. There must be an offence committed by the principal. 

2. The accomplace is charged with the basic offence. 

3. The prosecution need only prove that D was an accomplace. 

Assisting can include a lot

Bainbridge -> Case where a chain cutter was given with knowledge that it was going to be used to rob a bank, sufficient to find complicity.

Attorney General v. Able -> Case where supply of information was sufficient to find complicity. However the information must actually help in the actual commission of the crime.

Bryce -> The assistance was some help in committing the crime. Foresight of real risk is sufficient, drove P in a caravan and that was sufficient.

Gianetto -> Obiter! Stated that a husband patting a prospective murderer on the back and saying 'oh goody,' at the prospect of his wife's death would be sufficient to aid in the commission of a crime for the purposes of S. 8.

Calhaem -> Case where D hired a hitman to kill a woman, the hitman did so but out of panic when the woman started screaming and not out of D hiring him. D tried to plea that because there was not a relationship between the two then nthere was no murder. However complicity was found in this case. 

Rowe -> The prosecution doesn't need to have a positive effect on P's conduct, it matters not that encouragement was given but ignored,' so it is that the encouragement is given that there is sufficient means to find complicity. 

Jogee -> Comments on how there is no need to find that D caused P's actions, and merely that D encouraged P's actions. 

R v. Hussain -> Drug dealer who stabbed someone during a robbery but then fled the country. Three others were charged as accomplacies. One of them who was present within a car outside the flat where the stabbing took place. His argument was that there should need to be a measurable contribution in order to find complicity.

Dyson article 2022 in Hussain. Read this more.

R v. Rowe -> The test does not ask if there is a causal link between D's conduct and P's act. However! There is question to be asked if the assistence or encouragement has 'faded to the point of mere background,' or has become 'spent of all possible force,' by an overwhelming supervining act, as found in Jogee. 

R v. Gnago -> Gnago and a man who was not identified, got into a gun fight with each other, they shot and killed a care worker who was passing by from the inidentified man's gun. Gnago was convicted as an accompliace but the CA had overruled so it was for the Supreme Court to decide. The SC decided to uphold the conviction 6-1 but the judges all disagreed on the basis of that conviction. G had encouraged the unidentified man through engaging in a gunfight and that led to the death so liability could be found that way. However G had not encouraged the other man to shoot at him he was provoking and that might not be different. However the counter argument argued in Buxton 2012 was that in engaging in the gunfight they were egging the principal on in the fight. Four judges supported this. 

There was an alternative argument put through, G caused the unidentified man to fire back and cause the death. Therefore G was liable as a principal or joint principal. Two judges supported this. The free voluntary and informed action of the unidentified man caused the return fire and that would break the chain of causation from G's shot and therefore there was an issue here. 

Lord Kerr argued that G should not be held guilty for the murder at all and this was rejected on the basis of policy grounds. Despite being. Legally speaking. You know. Correct on all accounts. Obviously you can't aid someone by shooting at them, if anything you are trying to directly repudiate them shooting you in the strongest possible terms. Obviously in line with case law, and common sense, someone choosing to make a free and informed action to shoot back breaks the chain of causation. This case is obviously shambolic. It is G being saddled with the liability of the unidentified man in his absence. 

Being present at the scene does not make you an accompliace. Think back to innocent agent at the start. Omissions are hard to find complicity for. Jogee is also an authority here. 

Clarkson -> Man watches a rape taking place and does nothing, no liability found here. 

Willett -> Being present in a car when someone drives over a victim also is insufficient to find liability. 

R v. N 2019 -> N drove a car with two others, they got out of the car and attacked V with a knife, prosecution claimed that N and the others were part of a gang. N claimed that he did not know at all that they were going to attack. Conviction was upheld on the basis that mere presence, together with knowledge was not enough, but that presence and knowledge with an intention to assist could create joint enterprise. D could also be convicted if his presence helped or encouraged others to committ the crime either by numbers or moral support. 

Francom -> D stood by while V was tortured over a long period of time, and this created that given the length of time then the jury could have inferred that D encouraged the principals. 

This can get dicey in cases where people watch an illegal fight and whatnot. Their arranging of the event or even merely applauding could constitute liability under S. 8. Wilcox v. Jeffery. 

If you are under a duty, following the normal rules of omissions liability you could also be found guilty as an accessory to the crime. Foreman and Ford 1988. 

Rubie v. Faulkner -> A driving instructor was found liabile for the dangerous driving of his student who was driving dangerously. 

R v. Daley -> D travelled with T to V, D knkew T had a gun, T shot V dead. There were issues on if this was mere precense or aiding and abetting. There was a finding of aiding and abetting here which arrived from the accumulation of factors. The long drive, the lies that D made subsequent to the murder regarding the memory card on his phone. The way that D continued to associate with T after the murder. In effect T was kind of giving off murder particles that touched D through the time and length of association. It's a bit strange. 

MENS REA

The operative case here is the case of Jogee which provided authoritative guidence for mens rea. 

D was convicted of the murder of V, who was stabbled to death by P. D had been with P during the evening of the killing and D was outside V's flat while P was inside. D told P to 'do something,' to V. P stabbed V with a knife found in the kitchen. At first instance the judge directed the jury that they could convict D of murder if they found that he had taken part in the attack and realized it was possible that P might use the knife with intent to cause serious harm. 

If the crime requires a particular intent, then it requires D to intend P to act with such an intent. D must intend to encourage P to committ the crime.

Haynes -> Post Jogee, foresight is insufficient, it must be that D intended to encourage P to do the specific crime. The Woolin test is allowed for indirect intention though there is some debate on this.

A. Pedain (Scholarly Argument) -> If intending something means to endorse it as the consequence of one's voluntary actions, then the issue is not about whether you endorse it as the certain, the likely or the unlikely consequence of your behaviour, it is about endorsement as such. THe point is whether you give that consequence your blessing." 

The mens rea in this sense relates to the specific act which DOES mean that intoxication would actually be a defense here. Shown in case Mohamadi (Hamid) 2020. 

O'Neil v. Gale -> Jury should ask if D knew the essential matters of the offence. 

Jogee -> Conditional intent, liability may be found if D knew that P would engage in a crime if certain conditions were met and help to facilitate that the crime would happen were those conditions met. 

R v. Grant -> D was sitting in a car driven by P, P then drove into two Vs knocking them over. Others in the car then hit V with metal bars and V died. The plan was to catch and attack the Vs on foot but this was not done and was a departure from what was assumed to be the plan. There can be encouragement that leads to death going by manslaughter. D encouraged P to engage in the unlawful act that lead to death. 

WITHDRAWAL 

Withdrawal differs on the basis of the case. 

It can be difficult to establish.

R v. Rook -> D and P1 were recruited by P0 to kill V and told they were going to be paid, P2 was then recruited and killed V, when the time for the killing came about P1, P0 and P2 went to kill V, but D was nowhere to be found. D gave evidence he never intended to kill V. He was found guilty and his appeal was dismissed. D never communicated and therefore that was ineffective. 

R v. Mitchell -> Fight broke out at a restaurant. Three people left but then one of the leavers returned to beat V even more. The CA held that where there is a spontaneous attack just walking away is sufficient to withdraw. 

Qualified by Robinson -> If parties join together for an attack then there must be a communicated withdrawal because they joined together rather than acted in the heat of the moment. 

O'Flaherty -> A gang attacked V.. V managed to escape but some of the gang pursued him and found V and hit him again. D tried to say that he should not be held liable for the injuries in the second instance. CA said it could be considered that they were two sepeerated incidents, however the question was if there was an effective withdrawal.