---
title: Defenses II Duress, Necessity, Self Defense
---

SELF DEFENSE

Two elements

1. D was or believed they were facint a threat from V
2. D used a level of force against the threat or threat as it was believed to be was reasonable in the circumstances

This defense comes from common law but also S. 3 of the Criminal Law Act 1967, though the legal rules are seen to be the same regardless of the source. S. 3 does specifically pertain to the prevention of a crime or assisting in lawful arrest. 

DPP v. Bayer, Morris and Oraki v. CPS -> This it can be used in relation to any offence but it is only available where D uses force. 

Riddell -> Self-defense is only avaialble where Davis LJ 'where a person uses force in order to meet actual or percieved force or threat of force.' 

However!

Oraki v. CPS -> Obiter, it did not need to be shown that D was using force. 

S. 76 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 tried to clarify. 

Keane -> CA case said that the elements are as follows

1. The victim must pose a threat
2. The threat must be unjustified
3. The use of force must be reasonable
4. The amount of force used must be reasonable 
5. D must be acting to in order to defend themselves or another or property

VICTIM MUST POSE A THREAT

R v. Hitchens -> H was charged with an assault on B. His defense was that he acted in self-defense. He assaulted her in order to prevent her allowing a man into her flat who H believed would assault. He was charged with assault at the first instance but the CA allowed an appeal. The discussion was brief and muddied the waters between duress and self defense.

R v. Williams (Demario) -> The defence could apply in cases where D was attempting to stop V from taking their property. It could not be used if V had stolen the property and D was using force to recovery. 

THE THREAT MUST BE UNJUSTIFIED

Jones -> Crime committed in an attempt to stop the Iraq war could not be justified on the basis on self defense because going to war in Iraq was not an offence. 

THE USE OF FORCE MUST BE REASONABLE

R v. Martin (Anthony) -> D shot two men who entered his house at night. D was convicted of murder and on appeal there was an attempt to introduce new evidence to argue that D was suffering from DR and he was more likely to believe he was about to be attacked than an ordinary person would be. Householder part of S. 76 of the 2008 Act, if they could have escaped then use of force will be held to be unreasonable. 

S. 76(6A) -> There is no duty to retreat 

Bird -> D tried to unsuccessfuly escape and then used force to attack, then the jury is likely to think D acted reasonably. 

Law does allow a pre-emptive strike -> Beckford

So long ad the pre-emptive strike is reasonable -> AG's Ref No. 2 of 1983, prepared petrol bombs during widespread rioting. 

The attack also needn't be imminent or immediate -> AG for NI's Ref. No. 1 1975

THE AMOUNT OF FORCE USED MUST BE REASONABLE 

Yaman -> Amount of force must be reasonable

Oye -> COnfirmed long line of cases is that the question is if a reasonable person would say that the level of force was reasonable and not D. Westfield case. Also it is based on the facts as D believed them to be even if super unreasonable. Eventually returned a verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity.

AG for NI's Ref. No. 1 1975 -> These circumstances of proportionality need to be seen in the context that you're in the controlled environment of the court room evaluating it. 

S. 76 (7)(a) -> D was acting in the agony of the moment

Martin (Anthony) -> Shooting two guys who come into your house was unreasonable at that time, though debate following reforms where the amount of force in a householder case must be grossly disproportionate. Also a diminished responsibility case as that is ultimately how it was decided. 

R v. Steven Ray -> Case where a householder stabbed someone, held by the court that just because the violence used fell short of being grossly disproportionate it need not be seen as a reasonable case of self defense on that basis. It's not an automatic affirmation or disqualification, same as how the duty to retreat is a factor but not a single deciding element. 

R v. Taj -> The car terrorism case, D drove by thinking V was a terrorist while D was intoxicated voluntarily, and held that self defense could not be relied upon on account of that voluntary indoxication.

Kearne -> You can't use self defense in a situation you initiated.

NECESSITY

Nicklinson v. MoJ -> There is no general defense of necessity. 

Southwalk LBC v. Williams -> Necessity could not be used as a defense by homeless people using empty housing. Thanks lord Denning. 

Kitson -> Drunk man who found his car rolling down a hill responded by driving the car out of the way, held he was still guilty of drink driving even though he acted in an way that society would see as meritorious. 

Dudley and Stephens -> The cabin boy case! Necessity cannot be a defense to murder. 

Howe -> Confirmed Dudley, necessity cannot be used as a defense for murder. 

Re A -> Conjoined twins case however narrowed the ratio of Dudley and Howe. 

Re F -> Property can be appropriated if it is in the public interest. Said in obiter in that case consolidating other cases. Equally damaging or interfering with property in order to save their own person or property then necessity can be used as a defense. 

Re F x2 combo -> Necessity was relied upon to justify the sterilization of a mentally ill woman. They found that the operation would be in her best interest and therefore the doctrine could be relied upon in order to make a defense. This was limited to cases where V could not consent or did not have time to consent. 

Johnson v. Phillips -> Held that necessity was avaiable when a police constable gave traffic directions contrary to law was avaiable when directions were to protect property and as such following those directions was also lawful.

Re A -> Very limited category where necessity could be used as a defense to murder. Explains necessity more broadly through a tripartite explaination. 1, The act is needed to avoid inevitable and irreparable evil. 2. No more should be done than is reasonably necessary for the purpseo to be achieved. 3. the evil avoided must not be disproportionate to the evil avoided. 

Nicklinson -> It was for Parliament to change the law and not the courts to provide a defense. 

Peter Glazebrook SCHOLARLY ARGUMENT -> Necessity is in practice much broader as while it is not generally recognized explicitly it is often the case that the prosecution will not bring charges or the jury will acquit someone who was acting in the lesser of two evils based on the facts. An example of this is Bourne, where a surgeon gave a suicidal 14 year old girl who had been raped an abortion and the judge refused to charge stating that his actions were lawful. So in effect there may be a kind of implied necessity contingent on the facts. 

DURESS OF CIRCUMSTANCES 

Pipe v. DPP -> Man was driving his ill son to hospital and broke the speed limit. Held the jury should have been directed that he may have relied on the defense of duress of circumstances. 

DURESS

Two flavours, Duress by threat, and Duress of cricumstance. 

Cole -> Sometimes difficult to distinguish, but

Willer -> No practical difference only one of explaination

Duress is avaiable for all crimes except murder and treason

Howe -> Two men who were threatened with death if they did not kill another did not have a defense in that case. 

Gotts -> Also not a defense to attempted murder though by a 3-2 majority so could be scope for a different finding in future. 

Wilson (Ashlea) -> 13 year old who helped his father kill a woman was an accompliace to the crime and even though he feared for his life from his father the defense was not avaiable to him in that case. The law commission recommended change as a result. 

Graham, approved in Howe -> D must act because of a threat of death or serious injury, and a reasonable person must have responded to the threat in the way the defendant did. 

Valderrama-Vega -> D had been threatened with the reveal of his sexuality, he was under financial pressures and there were threats of serious injury or death. CA said that he could rely on the defence of duress as long as the threats were a substantial reason but they did not have to be the only reason. 

DPP v. Bell -> D was in fear of his life and therefore drove off in a car even though he had consumed alcohol. It was held he would have a defence if he drove only for a distance that was reasonable to escape and any surplus driving would be unlawful. 

DPP v. Mullally -> Similar case, they drove over a mile away from the threat and were being followed by a police car and therefore it was unreasonable to continue driving while inebriated. 

Graham, approved in Howe -> Duress is avaiable only if the threat was death or serious harm

R v. A -> CA obiter rape could constitute serious harm, but a lesser kind of threat, so threats to property, reputaiton or minor injury could not constitute a duress defense. 

Dao -> False imprisonment insufficient. 

EK -> Being part of a human trafficking ring, who roganized the trafficking of other people could not be used to ground a defense of duress because it is not a threat of serious harm or death. 

Baker and Wilkins and GAC -> For duress it msut be a threat of serious physical harm in contrast to Burstow which mentioned that GBH in OATPA 1861 would include serious psychological harm. However given that generally the law does not like to distinguish the two it remains to be seen if this would apply in general. See Loveless 2014 Academic article for that. 

Brandford -> An indirect threat, one that is given by a third party say, would be sufficient still. 

R v. Z -> Duress is avaiable to prevent harm for any D generally sees themselves responsible for rather than merely them or their direct family. 

Rodger and Rose -> The threat must be external. Prisoners trying to escape from prison because the conditions meant they were suicidal and it was found that the circumstances were internal and therefore duress could not be relied upon to ground a defense. 

Graham -> D must have reasonable grounds for mistaken belief when that forms the basis of a defense of duress. 

R v. Z x2 -> Duress is only available if D both genuinely and reasonably believes the threat to have been made. 

THE REASONABLE PERSON MUST HAVE RESPONDED TO THE THREAT IN THE WAY D DID

This is for the jury to decide. 

Bowen -> Which cahracteristics can be taken into account and what purposes are they relevant. The characteristic must provide a reason for why D did not live up to the situation. Low IQ therefore may be while high IQ would not be. Same as PTSD. The characteristic must not be self induced, in the same way as intoxication. The characteristic may therefore affect the level of firmness expected, affect the ability of D to eescape from the threat, and affect the gravity of the threat. 

Heath -> D must take any reasonable chance to escape from the threat. 

R v. N -> The harm must be immenent

Petgrave -> D needs good cause to believe the harm will be carried out. 

Quayle -> D was not entitled to rely on the defence of necessity in order to shoot up drugs for pain relief. Even though they had a medical condition and needed pain relief. 

Altham -> Quayle was followed even though it was alledged it breached human rights. 

R v. Bowen -> Big case mentioned in passing earlier. D was threatened with a petrol bomb at his house if he did not help out with a property offence. D had an IQ of 68 which is in the lowest 2% of the population and the debate was how would that change the test of a reasonable person responding as D did. Low IQ and suggestability was held to not be within the capabilities of influencing what characteristics may vary the test. Though PTSD and medical diagnoses were suggested to have such power. 

R v. Z -> D associated with a known violent man who threatened D in order to get D to burglarize a house. Originally held that the association between D and the threatener was voluntary and therefore statements by the threatener were inadmissable. Confirmed the point that voluntary associations will not allow duress where the associations are criminal for policy reasons, the law should discourage mingling with criminals. 

R v. Quayle -> Painkillers case must be extragenous for the defence to be relied upon. 