---
Title: Criminal Law Murder
---

This section covers both murder, and the two partial defenses of Loss of Self Control, and Diminished Responsibility.

AR: The unlawful killing of another person in the King's peace.

MR: An intention to cause death or GBH to V.

Edward Coke 1645

Malice afterthought not required anymore as illustrated in Cocker, or in the Law Commission report on reforming provocation defense. 

Cunningham -> Established the MR for GBH

Intention, see Woolin, virtually certain result of D's actions and D realized this was so. 

Natalie Conolly case -> Rough sex used to defeat the MR necessary for murder.

Partial Defences
Remember that these defences are only avaiable for a charge or murder and will never be relevant for non-fatal offences against the person or sexual offences. 

LOSS OF SELF CONTROL

This defense replaced the provocation defense and is found in the Coroners and Justice act 2009 S. 54

There are three limbs to this partial defense 

1. D must show they lost self control

2. That loss of self control was caused by a qualifying trigger (of which there are two)

3. A person of D's age and sex with a normal degree of tolereance and self restraint would have reacted the same way. 

LOSC is not a defense to attempted murder. 

S. 54(2) The loss of self control needn't be sudden shown in R v. Islam it also needn't be frenzied. 

There are three questions to ask

1. Was there a qualifying trigger> (Fear of violence to D or to another)/(Things said or done of an extremely grave character)

2. Did D lose control as a result>

3. Might someone of D's sex and age with a normal degree of tolerance and self restraint have reacted in the same way?

If the answer is in the affirmative to these three questions then a partial defense of LOSC may be found and relied upon. 

Gurpinar -> There is no established law on if the LOSC must be total or partial (Important for academic debates in PQs)

Reason to believe that it needn't be total 

Richens -> Decided in 1993 before the reform of the defense in 2009, however it indicated that a total loss of control would make the defense closer to automatism and therefore it should not be a total loss of self control. 

Therefore likely that it would not need to be total loss of self control. 

R v. Islam also needn't be frenzied, but R v. Cocker it also can't be too calculated. Cocker the case with a wife who begged her husband to put her out of her misery for an illness, ataxia that had been causing her pain. He strangled her acceeding to her wishes, and therefore not acting out of a loss of self control. 

B. Mitchell 2011 Article -> Partial defenses for murder relate to finding sympathy and where we should show sympathy. 

Jewell -> Loss of control involves 'loss of the ability to act in accordance with considered judgement or a loss of nonrmal powers of reasoning.' 

Dawes -> 'Provided there was a loss of self control it does not matter whether the loss was sudden or not. A reaction to circumstances of extreme gravity may be delayed. Different individuals in different situations do not react identically, nor respond immediately,' 

Acott -> The Loss of Self Control must be related to a qualifying trigger, just losing control but not for a qualifying trigger precludes reliance on this partial defense. 

S. 55 Coroners and Justice Act 2009 outlines the elements of Qualifying Triggers.

Elements: Fear of violence Qualifying Trigger

Subsection 3 -> Fear of serious violence from V against D or another identified person 

'Fear,' -> Fear is required but not knowledge, but likely that suspicion would not be sufficient, R v. Myles relates to the Subsection 4 element but likely that the same line would be followed. However a misaphrension would be sufficient even if wrongheaded.

'Serious violence,' -> The threat must involve serious harm, likely ABH or higher, ABH mentioned in nonfatal offences against the person notes. It must be violence not against property.

'From V,' must be from V. It cannot be threats from someone else and then D kills someone else who doesn't issue the threat.

'Against D or another identified person.' -> Needs to be an identified person, or against D.

S. 55(6) Cannot be relied upon if D incited an action that led to fear of violence. 

There must be a loss of self control, this is the second question so the first question must have already been answered in the affirmative for this to apply.

This defense is avaiable when the level of violence in relation to the threat is not proportional. 

Elements: Things said or done Qualifying Trigger

Subsection 4 -> Loss of sef control was attributatble to a thing or things done or said or both which
1. Constituted circumstances of an extremely grave character. 
2. Caused D to have a justifiable sense of being seriously wronged. (as a result)

'Extremely grave character,' -> The normal trivialities of life will be insufficient. (R v. Dawes -> the ending of a relationship would be insufficient)(R v. Doughty -> Crying baby was sufficient under provocation but insufficient to be extremely grave under the new defense.)

'Justifiable sense of being seriously wronged,' -> Crying baby in Doughty would be insufficient on this grounds too.

D's own characteristics may justify what is something of an 'extremely grave character,' -> Religion or sexual orientation, or race, may lead different things to be serious wrongs to different people. SO what is seriously wrong in this partial defense is to some degree subjective and related to what D would have thought, given who D is, regarding if something was seriously wrong. 

Suspicion is insufficient -> R v. Myles suspcision that V had sexually abused D's children was insufficient to rely on this, as something has to be said or done. 

It must be wrong to D, and must be directed at them. 

There must be something said or done (read circumstances or ommissions are insufficient). Someone having a bad day or getting rained on, or even being evicted or being told your parent had died would be insufficient. Amanda Clough -> unreported first instance case where an adult killed his terminally ill parent after health professionals did not give the parent pain medication. Judge did say however that not providing pain relief could be something said or done in this case. This is getting into the weeds of metaphysics and ommissions. 

55(6)(b) Incitement again would defeat this as it would the other QT.

55(6)(c) Infidelity is not to be considered (BUT! Clinton)

R v. Clinton -> Case that established while infidelity alone could not create a LOSC, if infidelity is the context for what is going on then it may be included within things said or done. In effect sidestepping that provision aside from in the case where infidelity is all that is done, which is rather hard to imagine. 

With the first two questions answered in the affirmative then the final question becomes the issue.

Would an individual with normal tolerance and self restraint have acted as D did?

This is an Objective test. 

Camplain -> 'Old head on young shoulders,' 

Only age and sex can be considered, nothing else may be considered. 

R v. Rejimanski -> Consider this case here too, as it relates to the soldier with PTSD trying to argue that the PTSD lowered their tolerance, but since this section is objective and imagines a hypothetical person, that cannot operate here. The size of the wrong is subjective, but the reaction involves considering it objectively.

DIMINISHED RESPONSIBILITY

Diminished Responsibility is another partial defense, again a partial defense to murder and will only lower a charge of Murder to one of voluntary manslaughter. 

Found in statute S.2(1) of HOmicide Act 1957 it has 3 limbs again, though the second has 3 appendages within

1. Did D have a medically recognized condition?
2. Did the condition substantially impair D's ability to - 'Understand the nature of the conduct,'/'Form a rational Judgement,'/Exercise self control,' - ?
3. Did this provide an explaination for D's acts or omissions? 

Article 6(2) of the ECHR could be engaged by the fact that D has to prove this partial defense. However mitigated by the idea thaht it is on the balance of probabilities. 

Abnormality of mental functioning is the next element mentioned within the law. 

Vinagre -> The prosecution should only accept the plea there is clear evidence of D's abnormality, if there's not clear evidence, then it's for the jury to decide the question. 

Byrne -> Older cases related to this defense are much broader and do not require the same kind of medicalization as the defense as it currently exists. 

Vinagre -> Additionally this is the 'othello disease,' case where there was jealousy for which there was no clause, and this defense was allowed to operate. 

In short prior law on DR was a mess. 

The new law is much more medicalized. 

Squelch -> Paranoid personality disorder is a recognized medical condition.

Conroy -> Autism is a recognized medical condition from this case. 

R v. Challen -> It doesn't need to be a serious illness mild depression was sufficient.

D must introduce evidence from an expert to establish the defense, and if the evidence is clear then the prosecution will accept the plea. 

However! 

If there is discord among the evidence or if the evidence is challenged then it is for the jury to decide. 

R v. Brennan -> D had a troubled childhood and had mental health issues so he introduced evidence to support the defence. Schitzotypal Disorder and Unstable Personality Disorder. However the jury convicted of murder all the same. Held on appeal that the judge erred in this case and since the Crown had introduced no evidence to displace the evidence D introduced, that there was no grounds to leave it to a jury. 

R v. Conroy -> All the experts agreed that D had an abnormality of mental functioning and a recognized medical condition however on the second question necessary for this defense they were divided 3 to 1, the jury convicted and the CA said that this was okay, even though the majority said so. 

In summary where there is no evidence of disagreement among experts DR should be accepted and not left to the jury. Where there is any level of disagreement introduced in the evidence however, then it is open for the jury to consider. 

This relates to the first question now onto the second question

Did this mental abnormality have one of the three effects necessary to establish this partial defense?

Law Commission Example: Boy age 10 who is obsessed with video games, and kills assuming that the person they kill would respawn. This would mean they lacked the requisite MR for murder. 

Second Law Commission Example: A mentally sub normal boy believes he must follow his older brother's instructions even when they involve taking part in a killing. He says 'I wouldn't dream of disobeying my brother and he would never tell me to do something if it was really wrong.' -> Therefore the abnormality of mental functioning did impact the ability to form a rational judgement. 

R v. Conroy -> Living in a care home had learning difficulties and had autism, D went and strangled a victim and then tried to have sex with V. The jury struggled a great deal in this case on if his mental state impaired formation of rational judgement.

Substantial impairment must severely impact one of the three appendages on this limb. 'Understand the nature of the conduct,'/'Form a rational Judgement,'/Exercise self control,' as long as the answer is yes their mental impairment did severely impact their ability to do ONE of the following then that is sufficient to answer the second question in the affirmative. 

R v. Osborne -> HOWEVER! Just having the condition isn't enough and having a maringal impact isn't enough it MUST be substantial. In this case it was ADHD. 

R v. Mark Golds -> D murdered partner at family bbq. Expert evidence of psychosis and depression which he was medicated for. Concvicted of murder and then appealed. The meat of his appeal was that the judge misdirected the jury on the meaning of 'substantial,' argued that substantial is to be given its ordinary meaning. Beyond merely trivial, was argued. Significant, or appreciable, but not necessarily substantial and serious. Psychotic episode with delusions was substantial. 

Squelch -> 'Ordinary English word, it means less than total and more than trivial.' 

The final question remember ONLY answer this question if the previous two have been answered in the affirmative. 

Does the abnormality of mental functioning provide an explaination for D's acts and omissions in doing or being a party to the killing? 

Evidence must be introduced to this end. 

DR and intoxication. 

Intoxication is not a 'medical condition,' in this act. However alcohol dependency (Read delerium tremens) would be a medical condition here. As we know from automatism self induced intoxication is insufficient there and only impairs the formation of a specific mens rea. However having a condition while drunk does not stop this defense. 

R v. Joyce and Kay -> The drugs and schizophrenia cases. Kay had schitzophrenia went on a bender, ahd various drugs and became psychotic as a result. Then he stabbed a victim 35 times. Tried to plea dependency but not found and convicted of murder. Joyce schitzophrenic, took drugs bought a knife, and stabbed a customer, convicted of murder. Kay's appeal unsuccessful because schizophrenia was not substantial impariing him, but his intoxication was. Therefore it was unreliable. Joyce however the condition was the main or significant factor. Therefore it becomes about the interplay of these issues, how do they link. 

R v. Dowds -> Voluntary drunkenness insufficient for DR. 

(Ancillary Partial Defense) -> Suicide pact gives a partial defense to murder. Homicide Act 1957.

