---
title: Theories of Criminalization
---

Andrew Ashworth 2000b Argument -> The four principles that should be used when invoking criminal sanction of conduct. It should only be used to sanction for substantial wrongdoings. Prevention should not be the motivator as the criminal law does little to effectively prevent and other interventions such as in education are superior in that respect. The next principle is that the laws should be enforced with respect to equal treatment and proportionality. Next the principle that those convicted should be convicted with due regard for human rights. Lastly the principle that sentences should be proportionate to the wrongdoing. 

Victor Tadros 2011 -> Argues that the criminal law is private law but with a public element that necessitates strong state intervention even against the consent of the victim. This is predicated on the fact that there are 5 principal reasons. 1st that relying on the consent of the victim could lead to intimidation of a victim by an offender. 2nd the state has an inherent right. 3rd, when a person commits a criminal offence they mark themselves as needing to be survieled and state intervention is part of ensuring that. 4th, there are limits to consent. 5th the state has an obligation to protect all the people that exist within the state. 

Raz -> Principle of autonomy, people should be free to live their life as they see fit. 

Mill -> Harm principle. Criminal law should be based on the notion that everything should be permitted except that which would harm someone else. 

DPP v. Gough -> Naturalist case, where a man walked around wearing next to nothing and this freaked out local women and a conviction was found on that basis under S.5 of the Public Order Act. 

Madden Dempsey 2012 -> To base criminalization in harm done to certain groups might cause issues with groups that are bigoted. The criminal law may be hijacked as an agent of bigotry by those groups against groups they are bigoted against. 

Hornole 2014 -> Theories of criminalization, the state should not have a duty to criminalize. A duty to criminalize goes against the notion that in a conflict between the criminal law and liberty, liberty should prevail.

