---
title: Land Law Easements Cases
---

Easement Checklist
1. Is there a dominant and subserviant tenament?
2. Are these tenaments owned by two seperate people?
3. Is the right capable of existing as an easement? 
4. Does the land benefit from the proposed easement?
If yes to all then capable of being an easement, subject to other issues (Ouster)

Implied Easements can be created in 4 ways
1. Necessity (Union Lighterage Co v. London Graving Dock Co) Only operant for the buyer and not the prior owner when land is divided.
2. Common intention necessary to give effect to common intention (Wong v. Beaumont Property Trust ltd.)
3. The rule in Wheeldon v. Burrows, required the owners consent given the previous licenses and rights.
4. LPA S. 62

LPA 1925 S. 62 Relates to how easements are conveyed with a property. Proceeded by S. 6 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1881. 

Hill v. Tupper -> The canal case, found not to create an easement to moor pleasureboats. Found not to benefit the land itself, supports part 4 of the checklist.

Wheeldon v. Burrows -> Piece of land divided up to form a workshop, attempt to plea an easement for the light, found to not have a right of easement. Two rules found within First "all those easements which are necessary to the reasonable enjoyment of the property granted, and which have been and are at the time of the grant used by the owners of the entirety for the benefit of the part granted." Second "if the grantor intends to reserve any right over the tenement granted it is his duty to reserve it expressly in the grant." Necessity and how it applies to owners emerges from this case.

International Tea Stores Company v. Hobb -> Case concerning a right of way that had previously been enjoyed, the land was then conveyed to another owner despite not being mentioned in the deed. Held that there was an easement created as a result of this prior enjoyment. License is converted to an easement on conveyance.

Attorney-General v. Antrobus -> The Stonehenge case. Case where D erected fences around Stonehenge which restricted public access to the monument. Found there was no road and therefore no public right of way, a public road must lead between two public places, while a cul-de-sac may be a highway it must be so by its connection to a public right of way. 

Wright v. Macadam -> Case concerning shed use. Found that an easement was created on the same basis as International Tea Stores Company v. Hobb earlier. However because the shed was taken down P was only entitled to damages. A bit of a petty case. 

Copeland v. Greenhalf -> Case about car parking which was unlimited and effectively oustered the domminant tenament from using the land, therefore held to create a right too great to be an easement. "I think that the right claimed goes wholly outside any normal idea of an easement, that is, the right of the owner or the occupier of a dominant tenement over a servient tenement." (Upton J)

Re Ellenborough Park -> Big case, about a park where houses were built around it, and there was found ultimately to be a right to the "full enjoyment of the pleasure ground." Found that such a righ was not a right of occupation (Distinguished from Copeland v. Greenhalf on the basis of non-ouster). Found that such a right did benefit the land and not the occupier (Distinguished from Hill v. Tupper). The Easement checklist finds its genesis within the judgement by Danckwerts J in this case. Quotes legal theory a great deal. 

Miller v. Emcer Products ltd. -> Case about a lease which included a convenant regarding quiet enjoyment of the property, however another user of the building was using one of the bathrooms in the building, and claimed an easement to use that right. Held there was an easement right, and that right was more significant than the convenant of the lease for quiet enjoyment. 

Wong v. Beaumont Property Trust ltd. -> Restaurant case held that an easement was created by necessity to give effect to the business reasons for a lease, and to comply with the legal regulations necessary to give effect to that lease. Therefore it created an easement for ducting up a building to build a restaurant in the cellar of a building. 

ER Ives Investments v. High -> Interesting case where a block of flats was built, and a house was built, the block of flats had foundations that intruded a bit on the house's plot. Agreed an easement for a right of way on the land where the foundations intruded, this was agreed in writing but without deed or registration. The subsequent buyer of the flats was estopped from denying the right that had previously been granted. 

Sovmots Investments ltd. v. Secretary of State for the Environment -> Very interesting case, where it was held that in the case of a compolsory purchase order then the rule in Wheeldon v. Burrows, and S. 62 of the LPA 1925 cannot apply because it is not the owner being subject to give effect to his own prior intention, since in cases of compolsory purchase there is no intention of the owner when land is split.

London and Blenheim Estates ltd. v. Ladbroke Retail Parks ltd. -> Another car parking case, yay! Found that there really does need to be a dominant and subservient tenament existing at the same time the easement is granted to give effect to that easement. Though car parking could be an easement because of the lack of temporal coincidence there was no easement created. Though the judge at first instance disagreed and said the right was too broad, since the case was decicded on other grounds it's a bit of a minefield, you really don't know where to park your car with this one. 

Moncrieff v. Jamieson -> You're telling me these people still don't know where to park their car? Case about car parking. This is the Scots law cases on parking with a lot of commentary and controversy around it. The test was "Necessary for the comfortable use and enjoyment of the servitude." The hardship faced by the distance to a public road meant that it was necessary for enjoyment of the land to have a parking right. Clear shift in favor of more potentially onerous easements. Be careful! Scots law. But might apply to England too. 

Batchelor v. Marlow -> They're still at it with the car parking. Case that is a bit in conflict with Moncrieff. There was a car repair business that claimed over 20 years to have had an easement for parking during commercial hours. Held that such an extensive right was too much to constitute an easement, Copeland v. Greenhalf applied. 

Regency Villas Title ltd. & Ors v. Diamond Resorts -> Case where there was a large piece of land, it was split, time share units on one part, and sporting grounds on the other. Claim of an easement by the timeshare owners (dominant tenament) over the sporting grounds (subservient tenament) held that there was such an easement. Applied the Re Ellenborough Park criteria and found that there was an easement of use over the sporting grounds in this case. 

Wright v. Macadam -> 

Ward v. Kirkland -> 