---
title: Land Law Restrictive Covenants
---

Tulk v. Moxhay -> Landmark case about a landmark, in this case Leicester Square. Four limb test for restrictive covenants. 

1. The covenant must be restrictive.
2. At the date of the covenant, the covenantee owned land that was benefited by the covenant.
3. The original parties intended the burden to run with the land to bind successors.
4. The covenantor must take with notice of the covenant.

Rogers v. Hosegood -> The 1900s case on restrictive freehold covenants. Held that those covenants could run with the land and therefore be actionable against the next titleholder. So long as the burden runs with the land. So long as the benefit was part of the purchase then it can be presumed to pass the burden with any subsequent conveyancing, even without notice. There must be something to rebut this notice. 

Smith and Snipes Hall Farm Ltd v. River Douglas Catchment Board -> Case about a drainage ditch for the river douglas near blackpool. Banks for a stream that overflooded, and they were described as 'doomed to failure,' 

"benefit of a covenant does or does not run with the land: 
1. It is first necessary to ascertain from the deed that the covenant is one which "touches or concerns" the land, that is, it must either affect the land as regards mode of occupation or must be such as per se, and not merely from collateral circumstances, affects the value of the land, and it must then be shown that it was the intention of the parties that the benefit thereof should run with the land. 
2. A covenant, if it runs with the land, is binding on the covenantor though a mere stranger. 
3. The deed containing the covenant need not expressly identify the particular land to be benefited, but the maxim id certum est quod certum reddi potest will apply so as to make admissible extrinsic evidence to prove the extent and situation of the lands of the respective landowners. 
4. Once it is found that a covenant runs with the land and that such land is capable of identification, it can be enforced by virtue of the provisions of s.78(1) of the Law of Property Act, 1925, at the suit of the covenantee and his successors in title and the persons deriving title under him."

Newton Abbott Co-operative Society Ltd. v. Williamson and Treadgold Ltd. -> A non-compete clause, woman was running an ironmongers and they conveyed land to others with a restrictive freehold covenant that they may not run an ironmonger. Found that there was an enforceable covenant. 

"In order to annex the benefit of a restrictive covenant to land, so that it runs with the land without express assignment on a subsequent assignment of- the land, the land for the benefit of which it is taken must be clearly identified in the conveyance creating the covenant."

"You must show that the covenant created something analogous to an equitable easement."

"situation of the land must be indicated in the conveyance or otherwise shown with reasonable certainty?"

Halsall v. Brizell -> Case that contained multiple convenants, a positive covenant to maintain a sea wall, which was held to be unenforceable and not to run with the land on the basis of that positivity.

Baxter v. Four Oaks Properties Ltd. -> Case where someone was selling out parts of a large estate, giving out parts of it as wanted with the buyer. There were covenants on the land. Found that those covenants were enforceable. This is in spite of the fact that the measure of the land was not established. It was also enforceable on the basis that it ran with the land, the title was derived subject to the covenant.

Federated Homes v. Mill Lodge Properties Ltd. -> Conveying land subject to a covenant on building density, found that the covenant was enforceable as the benefit was assignable to the land, and under S. 78 it was something that touched the land and was therefore annexed to it. 

Roake v. Chadha -> While there's  no need for S. 78 to be explicit in appending a covenant to the land, the covenant must exist for the benefit of subsequent purchasors.

J Sainsbury plc v. Enfield London Borough Council -> Found that the restrictive covenants in this case could not be enforced on the basis that there was no indication that the covenant was annexed to the land.

Kumar v. Dunning -> Case where there was a covenant to not be bankrupt and the collateral was assigned through a line of contracts in conveyance. THe court held that there could be a covenant on the basis that the benefit talked about touched the land itself and since it did touch the land it was enforceable. 

Rhone v. Stephens -> Case where there was a house split in two, a cottage and a house with a shared roof, covenant to maintain the roof. Successor in title to the house has the covenant enforced against him and he tries to avoid it. Privity of contract means that the postitive covenant could not be enforced on the successor title holder. 

Crest Nicholson v. McAllister -> Case where a bunch of land plots were bought and then divided up. None of the covenants were found to be enforceable on the basis that they could not be appended to the land in terms of a benefit themselves. 