---
title: Land Law 2019 Exam Question Practice
---

An elderly couple, Maude and Perry, decided to downsize their family home. They sold their old house and decided to buy Stormont Cottage, together with their adult daughter, Arlene. Maude and Perry intended to live out their years in Stormont Cottage and that Arlene would live there as well, to look after them. Maude and Perry contributed half of the
cost of Stormont Cottage and Arlene the other half. The registered title in Stormont Cottage was conveyed to Maude, Perry and Arlene as “legal and beneficial joint tenants”.

Initial Situation 

CL: JT:MPA

EQ: JT:MPA

Intention: That they all live together with MP to live out their years, and A to care for them.

All went well for a year or two but then Arlene began to squabble with her parents, especially her mother. Maude was upset when Arlene’s young son, Dylan, moved into Stormont Cottage. Dylan, who had previously lived with his father, has behavioural problems. In May 2018 Arlene left a Post-It note in her mother’s bedroom saying: “Mum, I’ve had enough. I want Stormont Cottage to be sold so that I can find a safe place for Dylan and I to live together in peace.”

A attempts to sever EQ JT share into TIC share

Authority: William v. Hensman Mutual Intention, however requires the intention of all those present and since the note only reached the mother therefore likely not sufficient to sever, and equally it is not mutual but the sole intnetnion of one. Acting on one's own share is also not operant as it requires often money rather than just living somewhere else and would be insufficient.

Statutory Severance

LPA 1925 S.36(2): Written notice served
Written on a postit, so likely sufficient to be written, form non-important but substance is. However the notice must be imminent, there is no time limit and therefore this would defeat statutory severance. Harris v. Goodard authority here. 

Therefore situation remains

CL: JT:MPA

EQ: JT:MPA

Maude read the note before throwing it in the dustbin. Arlene and Dylan moved out and went to stay with friends.

In July 2018, having heard nothing from her parents about the sale of Stormont Cottage, Arlene decided she and Dylan needed to move abroad. She therefore mortgaged Stormont Cottage to NI Bank in exchange for a loan equivalent to the whole of the value of Stormont. 

Effect: Acting on one's own share, mortgage is sufficient to sever JT into TIC, authority William v. Hensman
Therefore situation becomes 

CL JT:MPA

EQ JT:MP 2/3 TIC:A 1/3

Other observations: Since the mortage is on the whole property it is likely a large mortage and this may give creditors a large degree of influence in an eventual order of sale in line with TOLATA 1996

Arlene forged her parents’ signatures on the mortgage deed. 

Effect: Creates a mortage on A's beneficial interest of the property and not a legal mortgage.
Authority: First National Securities Ltd v Hegarty (as well as several other forged mortgage cases)

The next day she called her mother to tell her she was going abroad. Arlene and Dylan then set off for the airport. Maude told Perry about Arlene’s Post-It note which she had read in May. Perry became very upset. They therefore decided to drive to the airport to confront Arlene. On the way they were hit by a juggernaut. Maude died instantly. In her will she left all her property to Perry.

DEATH effect

CL: JT:PA

EQ: TIC:P 2/3, A 1/3

Authority for death: Administration of Estates Act 1925 s.3(4)

When Arlene heard of her mother’s death, she returned to live in Stormont Cottage with Dylan and Perry. A month later the NI Bank wrote demanding repayment of its loan. Arlene told Dylan and Perry that she had spent all the money and explained that the bank wanted Stormont Cottage to be sold and the entire proceeds of sale paid to it. Arlene
wants to continue to live in Stormont Cottage, not least to provide stability for Dylan, whose behavioural problems have worsened, and to care for Perry who has been diagnosed with a terminal illness.

TOLATA 1996 debacle

A has not had a court ordered bankruptcy and therefore her share has not passed (yet) though when she does do so then her share will pass and it becomes time for the TOLATA priority game, as well as the insolvency act.

Crucial: insolvency act ignores any and all interests of the bankrupt party.

Trust of Land And Appointment of Trustees Act 1996. Section 15 states the court must give consideration to 
(a) Intention of creators (see Jones v. Challenger) 
(b) purpose for which the land is held (See Re Buchanan-Wollaston's Conveyance) 
(c) Welfare of Minors potential or actual (Edwards v. Lloyds TSB and Shaire) 
(d) Interests of secured creditors

Insolvency Act 1996 
Section 335A (3)
"Unless the circumstances of the case are exceptional × the interests of the bankrupt's creditors outweigh all other considerations."
Section 335A (2)(c)
"Needs of the bankrupt are to be disregarded."

Intention of creators: M is non operant, therefore P, but A has likely frustrated the intention by moving out some years before. Likely the intention has broken down.

Purpose for which the land is held, also likely non operant because the purpose has shifted over time to have A look after P and D, the purpose has changed to a degree. 

Interests of secured creditors

Shaire -> Likely non operant though it depends on the remaining assets of P, if he were able to take on the debt and had sufficient money to do so then this may be possible but unlikely given retirement. 

Bank of Ireland Mortgages ltd. v. Bell -> Likely the operative case here, so very likely a sale would be issued. Could not possibly hope to pay back the remaining money.

BUT! 

Welfare of minors, D in particular, he is young and is likely still young as not much time has passed in this story.
How do the courts weigh the interests of minors? I'm so glad you asked. 

Barca v. Mears, Re Citro, Grant v. Baker

In Barca there was a sale ordered but it was postponed to allow the kid to grow up, so this could be an option, however crucially even after that postponement the sale was still likely to generate a surplus. Therefore if the debt were enough to allow a surplus after postponement to allow D to grow up then that could still operate. 

Grant v. Baker, in this case bankruptcy and inability to pay back ever, child with some special needs and a home for it, found that they could only postpone for one year as the overriding needs of creditors came first.

Advise Arlene.

Therefore, it is unlikely that the courts would stop a grant of sale to the bank, however there may be some postponement for some length of time, contingent on the age of the child, the ability of the child to look after themselves and extent of disability, and the size of the debt. The ideal would be Shaire, but that would be contingent on P's other assets and how they measured next to the outstanding debt. 

There has been academoc debate regarding equitable mortages (citation: Steve Evans 2015) and academic arguments have swayed the courts before (Berrisford v. Mexfield) therefore there is a chance that the court may be willing to re-evaluate this issue, but that is unlikely and the most likely outcome is partial postponement for six months to a year on the basis of the factors mentioned earlier. 