---
title: Land Law Case Notes on Equitable Mortgagees and Bankruptcy within a Joint Tenancy
---

Mortgages
Abbey National Building Society v. Cann -> Acquisition mortagages take effect before registration at law

Term 2 tutorial 3 Cases
First National Securities Ltd v Hegarty -> Case where husband takes out a loan forging the wife's signature creating a beneficial mortagage on his share of the title through acting on his own interest (See Williams v. Hensman) held that where creditors pursue a husband the court will not intervene to stop the enforcement on the debt on the title. 

Ahmed v. Kendrick -> Another forged loan case, held that the effect was to sever the Joint Tenancy into a Tenancy in Common, and the bank acquired the beneficial interest previously held by the husband with the mortagage not taking effect at law but only in equity.

Read -> Sarah Nield article, untested legal theory that a charge on interest might not sever the title into a Tenancy in Common, allowing continuance of the right of survivorship (LPA 1925 S. 36) provided that the charge does not take effect to sever the Joint Tenancy. 

Re Buchanan-Wollaston’s Conveyance -> Selling a piece of seaside land where the deed required the 'parties,' those who are on the Joint Tenancy, had to agree to sale of the land, could take effect overruling the specific provisions of the LPA 1925 regarding severance. It also acted to protect the original purpose of the deed, the ocean view. 

Re Citro -> Case where in the course of bankcruptcy a home with children residing had to be sold, held that exceptional circumstances had to mean exceptional in order to postpone the sale, and that ordinary hardship resulting from bankruptcy will not suffice for that purpose. 

Re Holliday -> Young children are a factory to take into account when it comes to ordering the sale of a married couple's home.

Jones v. Challenger -> Rule that the home of a married couple neither spouse can order a sale while that purpose still exists. 

Mortgage Corporation v. Shaire -> Case where a husband forged the wife's signature on a mortgage yet again. Applying the Trust of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 where the existence of children was to be a consideration in bankruptcy. Explains application of that part of the act. Gives effect to the intention of Parliament that consideration is supposed to go wider and include other factors equally and weigh them. Ultimately held that the wife could take on the Husband's debt to the bank and repay it herself. 

Trust of Land And Appointment of Trustees Act 1996. Section 15 states the court must give consideration to 
(a) Intention of creatores (see Jones v. Challenger) 
(b) purpose for which the land is held (See Re Buchanan-Wollaston's Conveyance) 
(c) Welfare of Minors potential or actual (Edwards v. Lloyds TSB and Shaire) 
(d) Interests of secured creditors

Insolvency Act 1996 
Section 335A (3)
"Unless the circumstances of the case are exceptional × the interests of the bankrupt's creditors outweigh all other considerations."
Section 335A (2)(c)
"Needs of the bankrupt are to be disregarded."

Bank of Ireland Mortgages ltd. v. Bell -> Case again relating to mortgages and married homes. Found that an order for sale should be brought even in the case where it wasn't certain if the wife had signed the mortgage. Found that an order of sale should be brought since the size of the debt unpaid was so large that the wife could not possibly hope to ever pay it. Should be thought of with Shaire. 

First National Bank plc. v. Achampong -> Found that the wife had undergone some undue influence from the husband regarding the charge she had entered into on the home she occupied with her husband. Original purpose found not to exist and the size of the debt (180,000 on a property worth 195,000) meant that an order of sale should be made. (Case where the husband took out a mortgage and pressured wife into it to raise money for a business in Ghana and then defaulted. S. 63 LPA 1925)

Edwards v. Lloyds TSB Bank plc -> Another forged mortgage by the husband held that where a signature is forged the mortgage does not take effect at law but takes effect on the share of one of the title holders as part of a tenancy in common. 

Barca v. Mears -> Another case in line with Re Citro. A case where a divorced father wanted to retain a house with a mortgage on it, 135k mortgage on a 140k property, on the basis of the special needs of his son. Equally his ex wife had a purported beneficial interest in the property. The case also involved invocation of the European Convention on Human Rights, specifically right to private life. Exploring compatability of Re Citro with the ECHR. References proportionality (Read Ziggler, Bank Mellat for proportionality). Stated in obiter that this could be the case, however not in the case at hand. Given that the sale would be postponed for three years, which is a long time, given that the sale would generate some surplus and Mr. Barca would have access to extra funds in the mean time, and given that the kid's needs weren't that bad, found for the creditors. 

Claughton v. Charalamabous -> Case where there was a mortgage on a house, both parties went bankrupt and were terminally ill. An example of S. 335A(3) Exceptional Circumstances where the house had been adapted for the needs of the disabled, and while the interests of the bankrupt could not be considered, that only applied to the trustee in bankruptcy in that given case. Postponement until the death or vacation from the property of the person at issue. 

Re Raval -> Case where there was bankruptcy and sale of the home of a married couple, exceptional circumstances found on the basis of the wife's schitzophrenia, and postponement for an extra six months. However postponement requested and denied for six years to allow the child to grow up, on the grounds of inability to satisfy creditors. 

Dean v. Stout -> Meaning of 'exceptional circumstances,' in S335(A) the presence of them are necessary to displace the interests of creditors. Medical or mental condition among one of the joint owners in current caselaw. The court makes a value judgement looking at all the circumstances. The circumstances must be special (see Re Citro). Forcing a spouse out onto the streets may generate sympathy but it is not exceptional. The fact that the money won't all go do the creditors will also not displace the fact that their interests are served by the sale. 

Re Bremmer -> Case with an old man with inoperable cancer, indefinate postponement granted on order of sale on the basis of low life expectancy and the purpose of the trust still existing. 

Grant v. Baker -> Case where a taxi driver has tax irregularities through a negligent accountant who dies, declares bankruptcy as unable to get a loan from the bank because self employed, whole family has low salaries. He has a daughter with special needs and they live in a bungalo which is perfect for the daughter. On appeal found that there were exceptional circumstances but the judge at first instance erred in letting the postponement be indefinate. 

Journal article -> Equitable mortgages and Legal mortgages. Argues that the sale power for any mortagor following from 1st Swfit, should not apply on account of the fact that equitable mortgages and mortgages at law are created in different circumstances with different terms. The lack of checks as in legal mortgages can prevent the discovery of the facts in those mortgages and possible vitiating elements, which in turn may reach the point of violating Article 6 of the ECHR, the right to a fair hearing. Equitable mortgages can be created without knowledge and can lead to the conveyance of the legal estate also in violation of the non habet rule following obiter in Re White Rose Cottage, and affirmed fully in Swift 1st. Therefore equitable mortgages should not confer the power of sale found within Section 101(1) of the LPA 1925. Steve Evans 2015.