---
title: Mortgage Cases 2
---

Bank of Scotland v. Miller -> S. 36(1) A dwellinghouse means any part of the building that is used as a dwelling and at the time an application is made by the bank for sale, if anyone is living at the dwelling, regardless of if they had been at the time the legal charge over the land was granted then S. 36(1) allowing court discretion to prevent homelessness of the mortgagor would take effect.

Britannia Building Society v. Earl & Anor -> Case where there was a legal mortgage over property it was then rented out in contravention of a covenant of the mortgage. The mortgagor fell into arreers and the mortgagee tried to regain possession after the arreers, the tenants tried to appeal for postponement but that right was quashed on the basis that they did not have good title. On the basis that their tenancy was statutory rather than contractual. 

Cuckmere Brick v. Mutual Finance Ltd -> Case where there was land with planning permission for 35 houses and 100 flats, legal mortgage taken out on it fell into arrears order of sale given. Now the interesting part during the auction to sell they told the people at auction that there was planning permission for houses but not for the flats. It was sold at a lower value as a result, putting the mortgagor in a bad spot. They sued and it was held that there was a duty by the mortgagee in a case of sale to take reasonable care in getting good value for the land they had taken possession of. 

Tse Kwong Lam v. Wong Chit Sen -> Case where there was a house that the mortgagee was taking possession of. Mortgagee had a company with which only his wife and children were shareholders and they resolved to bid on the property being reposessed. The auction was advertized to the public. The sale had to be made in good faith though there was technically no bar against someone bidding from a company that they were interested in. They must demmonstrate that they take reasonable procautions to attain the best price reasonably obtainable. The closer the relationship the more this needs to be demonsrtated and this was not demonstrated enough in the current case. Entitled to damages as a result.

China and South Sea Bank Ltd v. Tan Soon Gin -> Case where a mortgage was made and as security a company mortgage shares worth twice the sum advanced. Debtor defaulted on the date for repayment and the shares were still worth more than the loan. However it was only after they became worthless that the sum was demanded. It was held that there was no duty to excercise its power of sale over mortgaged securities. Creditor had done no injurious act or failed to perform an act where there was a duty. Therefore equity could not intervene. 

Parker-Tweedale v. Dunbar Bank plc (no. 1) -> Husband suing a wife alledging that she imporperly excercised her duty to attain a reasonable price. Held in line with China and South Sea, that this was a duty arising from the relationship between the parties and not a true legal relationship. Therefore no obligation in that case. 

Parker-Tweedale v. Dunbar Bank plc (no. 2) -> Same case different issue. This time is a beneficiary a stranger to a mortgage. Question about to who falls the costs in enforcing a sale order in a mortgage. Held that the costs for action could be taken by the bank from the settlement and proceeds of the sale. 

Palk v. Mortgage Services Funding plc -> Case where there were three mortgages on a house during a recession. The mortgagor sought to sell and dispense with most of the interest and stop it growing so much even though he would still be in negative equity. However one of the mortgagees refused and wanted possession to rent out the house and then sell it once the market had picked up again. 

"I can summarise the four factors which combine to produce this result. First, there is a substantial income shortfall: the rental under the proposed letting would fall significantly short of the interest Mrs Palk would save if the house were sold. Second, the only prospect of recoupment of the shortfall lies in the hope there will be a substantial rise in house prices generally. This is not a case where sale is being postponed for a reason specific to this property: for example, pending the outcome of an application for planning permission for development. Following on from this, third, on the scanty evidence before the court the likelihood of Mrs Palk suffering increased loss if the company's plan proceeds is so high as to make the plan oppressive to her. Her liability is open-ended and will increase indefinitely. This risk of increased loss to her under her repayment obligation far outweighs the prospect of any gain the company may make from its proposed realisation scheme for the house. The one is unacceptably disproportionate to the other. Fourth, directing a sale will not preclude the mortgagee from having the opportunity to wait and see what happens to house prices. The mortgagee can buy the property. A mortgagee cannot buy property from itself, but here the sale is directed by the court; it is not a sale by a mortgagee in exercise of its own power of sale.

Palk v. Mortgage Services Funding Plc, 1992 WL 895554"

Therefore a sale order is made. It would be too unfair to have a bankrupt party underwrite the mortgagee's risks. 

Cheltenham & Gloucester BS v. Krausz -> Mortgage on a property, mortgagor falls into arrears. Four times orders of possession are granted but the mortgagee and mortgagor reach an agreement, which then falls apart. This being the fifth time such a thing has happened. S. 36 did not allow the court to suspend possession to sell in a case where the sale could not make up for the debt. Unless there were other funds. The mortgagor also had to seek relief from the court in order to be allowed to arrange the sale themselves when an order of sale had been granted.

Cheltenham & Gloucester BS v. Norgan -> Mortgage on a property for 22 years, goes into arrears, the regular, you never hear about happy mortgages. There was a series of orders of sales and suspensions made. What is a reasonable period of time to postpone and allow the mortgagor to pay back the arrears is contingent on the length of the mortgage the longer the mortgage the more time is reasonable. Also the risks that would happen on account of a delay to both parties. 