---
title: Mortgages
---

Cityland Property (Holdings) Ltd v. Dabrah -> Case where a premium on a loan which amounted to over 57% interest overall, and 19% per year, was unconsciounable particularly given the security that the bank held over the land. Therefore mortgage rates that go far beyond market rates will not be respected by the courts. The other factor given weight to is the relationship between the parties and their bargaining power. Of note was that this was a regular customer of 'little means,' trying to acquire property and therefore high rates would be unconsciounable. The rate was reduced down to 7%.

Multservice Bookbinding and others v. Marden -> The swiss franc case! Where the borrower borrowed in swiss francs. Stated that it was fine to borrow in swiss francs, and that the court would only intervene to stop clogs and feters if they are unconscionable and unfair. The premium is distinguished from Cityland on the basis that while unreasonable it is not unconsciounable, based on bargaining power. Courts do not exist to rescue those of equal bargaining power from a bad bargain. 

The Consumer Credit Act 1974

The principal conditions with which these appeals are concerned are contained in sections 137−139, which provide:

Extortionate credit bargains

S. 137.

(1) If the court finds a credit bargain extortionate it may re−open the credit agreement so as to do justice between the parties.

(2) In this section and sections 138−140, 

(a) "credit agreement" means any agreement between an individual ("the debtor") and any other person ("the creditor") by which the creditor provides the debtor with credit of any amount, and

(b) "credit bargain" -

(i) where no transaction other than the credit agreement is to be taken into account in computing the total charge for credit, means the credit agreement, or

(ii) where one or more other transactions are to be so taken into account, means the credit agreement and those other transactions, taken together. When bargains are extortionate

S. 138. (1) A credit bargain is extortionate if it -

(a) requires the debtor or a relative of his to make payments (whether unconditionally, or on certain contingencies) which are grossly exorbitant,
or

(b) otherwise grossly contravenes ordinary principles of fair trading.

(2) In determining whether a credit bargain is extortionate, regard shall be had to such

evidence as is adduced concerning -

(a) interest rates prevailing at the time it was made,

(b) the factors mentioned in subsections (3) to (5), and

(c) any other relevant considerations.

(3) Factors applicable under subsection (2) in relation to the debtor include -

(a) his age, experience, business capacity and state of health; and

(b) the degree to which, at the time of making the credit bargain, he was under financial pressure, and the nature of that pressure.

(4) Factors applicable under subsection (2) in relation to the creditor include -

(a) the degree of risk accepted by him, having regard to the value of any security provided;

(b) his relationship to the debtor;

(c) whether or not a colourable cash price was quoted for any goods or services included in the credit bargain

S. 139. 

(1) A credit agreement may, if the court thinks just, be reopened on the ground that the credit bargain is extortionate -

(a) on an application for the purpose made by the debtor or any surety to the High Court, county court or sheriff court; or

(b) at the instance of the debtor or a surety in any proceedings to which the debtor and creditor are parties, being proceedings to enforce the credit agreement, any security relating to it, or any linked transaction; or

(c) at the instance of the debtor or a surety in other proceedings in any court where the amount paid or payable under the credit agreement is relevant.

(2) In reopening the agreement, the court may, for the purpose of relieving the debtor or a surety from payment of any sum in excess of that fairly due and reasonable, by order -

(a) direct accounts to be taken × between any persons;

(b) set aside the whole or part of any obligation imposed on the debtor or a surety by the credit bargain or any related agreement,

(c) require the creditor to repay the whole or part of any sum paid under the credit bargain or any related agreement by the debtor or a surety, whether paid to the creditor or any other person.

(d) direct the return to the surety of any property provided for the purposes of the security, or

(e) alter the terms of the credit agreement or any security instrument

Paragon Finance plc. v. Staunton -> Case about a mortgage contract with a variable rate held within, the interest rates charged by the Bank of England went down by the plaintiff did not pass on that reduced interest rate to the appellant's detriment. Held that banks had to use their power to vary rates rationally and therefore pass on any reduction in interest rates to the customer. However in this case the bank was acting reasonably and therefore no remedy as the bank was acting to protect itself, given the particulars of the loan were borrowers self certified which carried inherent risk. 

Lombard Tricity Finance v. Paton -> You can vary rates as much as you like lawfully it needn't be reasonable and therefore this is rather in conflict with Paragon and Braganza.

Braganza v. BP Shipping Ltd -> Contract case actually and it concerns Wednesbury unreasonableness. A case where a wife's husband was working on a ship and disappeared and died. The employment contract allowed compensation for death so long as it wasn't an officer acting against orders from the company and suicide would be part of this. The Court held that there was a Braganza duty whereby even in contracts private entities would be bound by similar duties to those found in a Wednesbury unreasonableness test. 

BHL v Leumi ABL Ltd -> Case where Braganza principles using Wednesbury were applied to a debt collection case. 

