---
title: Contract Law Damages
---

Strict standard -> Goods contracts
Reasonable care standard -> Service contracts

Some breaches are serious enonugh to allow termination. If there is a breach of a condition or not. Warranties are less serious so they do not allow termination, inominate terms, wait and see terms, and conditions. Conditions are not always conditions. 

Some things can survive termination, confidentiality, and restrictive covenants as an example.

Wight v. Carter -> Case about ads posted on a bin. If there is a need for the breaching party is necessary to co-operate then there is no forced performance. There will be no forced performance where there is no legitimate interest in the innocent party continuing the contract.

Awarding damages. Compensate for loss as a result of breach of contract. Looking at putting the innocent party in the position that they would have been had performance taken place. You can't recover in cases of discomfort. Though travel is an exception where the purpose is to relax and be stress free so non financial losses may be recovered. See Jarvis v. Swan and Jackson v. Horizon Holidays and Milner v. Carnival. 

You can't generally recover for non financial losses. Addis v. Grammaphone and Johnson v. Unisys. Where the manner of dismissal was distressing generally you cannot claim in contract law for that, though there may be remedies in tort potentially. 

Malik v. BCCI, exception where there is reputational damage and particularly bad breach. So severe that there could be a claim as a result. Can't get other work because banking scandal and it is so severe that non financial losses may be claimed. 

Eastwood v. Magnox Electric plc. -> Seeing if the manner of dismissal can entitle a remedy under contract law. They said that they could not recover damages for a psychicatric issue. Affirmed in McCabe v. Cornwall CC. 

Duunnachie v. Kingston upon Hull CC. -> The court said no, non-financial losses. Employment is a very important part of people's lives but still.

Hamilton Jones v. David & Snape -> A client in a family related matter with a law firm, the claimant was worried that her ex husband would make good on threats to take children out of the country. She instructs solicitors who would put a block on the husband using his passport, they fail to renew the restriction and then he goes abroad and takes the kids. The client sues the solicitors for breach of contract. Financial loss and distress loss. Argue that damages are limited to financial losses. A significant sum is done. So the concern is about the essence of the contract, the heart of the consideration. 

Only reasonable losses for holidays and the Hamilton Jones.

How do we calculate damages? It is not about punishing the party in breach. What are we compensating them for. Reliance and restitution interest. Expectation interest, look at where they would have been. Reliance is the reliance on the contract. Restitution is where there is unjust enrichment but it is somewhat rare. 

Expectation -> Put the innocent party where they would have expected to be. 

Reliance -> Look at the detrimental reliance and losses taken in detrimental reliance, put them in as good of a position as they would have been had they not gotten into the contract. 

Restitution -> Deprive of an unjust enrichment gain. 

Can innocent party pick which claim they would like to do? 

The contract view is that it is traders trying to make profit. The innocent party would have an expectation of profit as the typical contract law approach, a whole body of law built on this merchantile understanding. 

Good bargain -> Generally expectation interest suits the innocent party better.

Bad bargain -> Generally reliance interest suits the innocent party better. 

Robinson v. Harman -> Harman agreed to lease a property with a particular rent. Harman realized they couldn't lease and so they didn't. The lease was worth a lot more. Robinson sues for breach. The court was trying to find what value could Robinson have. They calculated it on the expectation. The loss of profit had he had these premises. Expectation interest.

We look at loss of performance and consequential losses from not being better off, or from being worse off. We deduct gains that the innocent party might have gained as a result of the breach. Or cost savings or benefits from part performance. Losses are restricted through Innocent Party's failure to mitigate their losses. Negligence by innocent party may be restrictive. Or too speculative and remote between the contract breach and whatnot. Or interveneing issue.

Do we look at the difference between expectation and actuality or the cost of curing the defect where there is a difference. 

Ruxley Electronics v. Forsyth, and built a couple of inches too shallow and not as deep as the contract was. To repair the breach would have cost more than the contract was worth in the first place. This goes to CA and the HoL and they say that the remedy should be the windfall. Forsyth did not want to actually cure it. It was just a diminished value, so they awarded for a loss of amenity since there was no real impact on the loss from the house. Award a small amount for that. 

Tito v. Wardell -> Phosphate on an island and there was a license to a company, and those people want to keep their land, the company agrees to restore after the mining is finished, the company does not do that, so the islands seek the cost of cure. Because the islanders resettled and do not look to cure it then they will give diminished value. 

Not looking to cure = No damages for cure. Proportionality also a concern see Ruxley. 

Birse Construction v. Eastern Telegraph -> Residential college building contract but there are defects, cost of cure or diminishing value. They were going to sell it on and were not going to actually cure before selling on. No cure damages if no intention to cure. 

Alfred McAlpine Construction ltd. v. Panatown -> Contract to build a carpark on land owned by someone else. There is a link based on tax reasons. There was a deed that they would use reasonable care and skill. There were defects Panatown tries to sue because of the loss and they had an interest in performance. Majority decision that Panatown could not recover. They had a right to recover BUT privity of contract so only the third party could sue, no loss to Panatown. The third party could sue for their interest. Look at this case. Look at intention to cure. 

Golden Strait v. Nippon Yusen Kubishika Kaisha -> A ship being chatered gets returned early. Then the gulf war breaks out. This would have been a termimnable event. Could they claim for the remaining term of lease or the losses until the war. They could only claim until the war broke out. 

South Australia Asset Management v. York Montague -> Contract to develop properties with a loan agreement. Monies are advanced based on the proposed value of the loans. Two problems with the valuation, it was excessive. Second to that the housing values fell. THe people with the loans had to sell and were at a loss. Breach against the valuer. Should the damages be at the time of the valuation or at the time of the claim. The HoL said it should only be the initial one. 

Aerospace Publishing v. Thames Water -> Cost of cure provided. There is a flood by a burst pipe which causes issues to the publishing company and Thames Water's negligence makes it much worse. It is okay to claim for damage to the building and books damaged by the flood. Staff costs, the staff wouldn't have been diverted, but they had to be diverted to cleanup. Previously this loss was not allowed, these losses were allowed with two requirements. You must produce evidence to give the extent of the diversion they would definately have done something else. You need to establish that the diversion caused considerable disruption to the business. Then the losses can be given at least equal to the cost of employment during that time. There was also damage to an archive. The CA considered proportionality. If the income was the same then no financial loss. However there was a desire to cure and there was value in that. 

Expectations will protect reliance interest as well. Generally speaking. 

It is assumed that they can pick but not always. 

CCC films v. Impact Quadrant Films 1985 -> Contract to promote films but they lost the prints for the films. They couldn't establish the profits they would have made, so the court said they couldn't assess expectation but then they went to reliance interest. It's not a choice because of the overlap. There are limited circumstances where this would be preferred.

Bad bargain would make reliance preferrable. Bad bargain they won't allow to claim reliance interest in that case though. 

C and P Haulage v. Middleton -> Lease given for premesis on a renewable 6 month basis, and the tenant can't add to the property but they can't remove it at the end. Middleton adds lots of things and CP terminate earlier. Middleton claims for the cost of improvements. CA says that the lost expenditure isn't from the breach but from a bad bargain and therefore irrecoverable. 

McRae v. Commmonwealth -> Sells an oil tanker salvage. McRae goes to try and find it. No tanker so couldn't establish the expectation loss only a reliance interest. Anything else too speculative. 

Anglia Television v. Reed -> Film a tv show and incur various expenses, and enter a contract with Reed to star, but he pulls out and they can't replace. Anglia sue for pre contract expenses and some expenses after, they couldn't asses how profitable it would have been so only a reliance profit. They could claim pre contractual losses as well. This is a criticized decision because it is reliance on the contract so how pre contractual losses could be relevant. 

Restitution interest, quite rare. Quantum Meruit. The loss is similar to the gain. The breaching party gained a large profit. 

1. Show that the breaching party was enriched
2. Show that the breaching party was enriched at the innocent party's expense 
3. Show that it would be unjust for the innocent party not to be compensated

The contract must also be terminated. 

If not terminated then the contract itself will governs remedies.

May see rescue from a bad bargain. 

Need total failure of consideration when recovering monies. Pay money and there is no performance so restitution interest can be claimed. Provided some part so partial performance. 

Planche v. Coburn -> Book to be made on ancient armor, does a bunch of research but Coburn withdraw the project and so there is suing for research. Partial performance so there was quantum meruit based claim. 

Agreement express to play a reasonable price in the contract quantum meruit. If there is no price so price then quantum meruit. Certainty issues. 

Quasi-contract where working while negotiations ongoing and there is no final contract then the court may award some damages. 

Account of profits is an equitable remedy. 

Where D's gain exceeds C's loss so there should be reasonable recompense. 

Situation where based purely on the loss feels a bit much. Attorney General v. Blake. -> Official Secrets act confidentiality. Writes a book which breaches some of the confidentiality agreements. The government sought an injunction and they sue for breach of contract. They sue for profits. The government can recovery all of the profit because this is an exceptional remedy. The award reflects the demands of justice to the government. Outrageous to make profit from the breach. A lot of commentary. 

Experience Hendrix v. PPX Enterprise -> Allowed to license some of the recordings. They went beyond and licensed beyond the licneses they had and claim for the profits of the extra licenses. They had no loss, but there were big gains. The CA did not award profits, and merely the amount it would have cost for them to buy the licenses. Not as bad behaviour and a commercial context. Therefore okay. Blake is limited. 