---
title: Contract Law Performance Cases
---

Hochster v de la Tour (1853) 2 E & B 678 -> Fact where a servant was to accompany a lord around the continent as a courier, withdrew from the agreement just before it started. Established anticipatory breach, whereby someone withdraws from the contract before it begins, it is not rescision but instead it entitles action for breach of contract immediately. 

Schuler v Wickman Machine Tool Sales [1974] A.C. 235 -> A condition may not be a condition, it depends on the court to evaluate, the case abouot the shoe seller who had an explicit condition in his contract that he was to make a certain number of calls he fell slightly short but it was held that the 'condition,' wasn't a real condition.

Lombard North Central Finance v Butterworth [1987] Q.B. 527 

MUSTILL LJ IN LOMBARD

""

1. Where a breach goes to the root of the contract, the injured party may elect to put an end to the contract. Thereupon both sides are relieved from those obligations which remain unperformed.

2. If he does so elect, the injured party is entitled to compensation for (a) any breaches which occurred before the contract was terminated, and (b) the loss of his opportunity to receive performance of the promisor's outstanding obligations.

3. Certain categories of obligation, often called conditions, have the property that any breach of them is treated as going to the root of the contract. Upon the occurrence of any breach of condition, the injured party can elect to terminate and claim damages, whatever the gravity of the breach.

4. It is possible by express provision in the contract to make a term a condition, even if it would not be so in the absence of such a provision.

5. A stipulation that time is of the essence, in relation to a particular contractual term, denotes that timely performance is a condition of the contract. The consequence is that delay in performance is treated as going to the root of the contract, without regard to the magnitude of the breach.

6. It follows that where a promisor fails to give timely performance of an obligation in respect of which time is expressly stated to be of the essence, the injured party may elect to terminate and recover damages in respect of the promisor's outstanding obligations, without regard to the magnitude of the breach.

7. A term of the contract prescribing what damages are to be recoverable when a contract is terminated for a breach of condition is open to being struck down as a penalty, if it is not a genuine covenanted pre-estimate of the damage, in the same way as a clause which prescribes the measure for any other type of breach. No doubt the position is the same where the clause is ranked as a condition by virtue of an express A provision in the contract.

8. A clause expressly assigning a particular obligation to the category of condition is not a clause which purports to fix the damages forbreaches of the obligation, and is not subject to the law governing penalty clauses.

9. Thus, although in the present case clause 6 is to be struck down as a penalty, clause 2(a)(i) remains enforceable. The plaintiffs were entitled to terminate the contract independently of clause 5, and to recover damages for loss of the future instalments. This loss was correctly computed by the master.

""

Case where there was a computer on a hire purchase agreement. The plaintiff paid but then got into arears and the computer got repossessed and sold for diminished value. The court held that because clause 2 established time as being of the essence then that was to be treated as a condition under the contract. Therefore the finance company was entitled to full damages from the breach of the condition of timing due to late payments.

Hong Kong Fir Shipping v Kawasaki [1962] 2 Q.B. 26 -> Classic case that established inominate terms. Where there was a ship that was hired out, held that it was in seaworthy condition, as part of the contract, it was a 24 month contract but the ship was unusable for 5 months of that, was it a condition or a warranty, it was innominate. It's a 'wait and see clause,' and contingent on the scale of breach. If the impact is large then it is a condition entitling termination, if it isn't large then it's a warranty entitling damages but not termination.

The Hansa Nord [1976] Q.B. 44 -> Case which again talks about inominate terms. There was citrus pulp to be shipped from the US to the Netherlands to be used as animal feed. Express condition that it was supposed to be in good condition. Found that it was not a condition since the goods could still be used for purpose and it was an intermediate term and the breach did not go to the heart of the contract.

White & Carter (Councils) v Macgregor [1962] A.C. 413 -> The advertisements on garbage cans case. Very significant case. An agreement to display ads on bins for 3 years, the person buying the ads tried to pull out of the contract before performance had begun, but they had already accepted. They did not pay for any ads, the contract contained a provision saying that if there was a late payment then the seller of the ads could sue to recover the whole amount for 156 weeks. The arguments centred on the rules about election, and performance. A contract can be affirmed by right of election by a party so long as they do not rely on the breaching party in order to carry out the obligations of the contract. There was also no need to mitigate losses because of the nature of the debt in the contract. Therefore the council could claim the full amount. Though they must have a legitimate interest in performing the contract.

Hounslow London Borough Council v Twickenham Garden Developments Ltd [1971] Ch. 233 

Vitol SA v Norelf Ltd [1996] A.C. 800 

Howie v. Anderson ->