---
title: Mistake Cases
---

Sullivan v. Sullivan -> Case where a father created a trust accidentally, when his intention was to create a letter of intention as part of a will dispute with the children of a priror divorced spouse. Found that there was an equitable mistake on the basis of the trust that existed previously on account of the hardship, affirming Kennedy v. Kennedy and, Pitt v. Holt. The trust therefore ceased to take effect. Concerned with mistakes in equity

Arshad Mahmood v The Commissioners for His Majesty's Revenue and Customs -> Case at lower tribunal so likely not binding, where P pleaded common mistake on the basis of not knowing the tax liabilities incurred by a transfer of property. Tax law case. The plea of mistake fails as it can only apply as part of partial or prior to performance, and at any rate it would not be operative in this case as a result of the tax liability not being sufficient, and in any case had the mistake been operative the effect would not have been to make it as though the transfer had never happened, but rather to entitle return of money for the period the properties had been transferred. 

Banca Intesa Sanpaolo SpA v Comune di Venezia (KBD)  -> Found that there was no mistake since there was no mistake as to the existence of the subject matter (in this case Bear Stearns IRS reports) though the plea was originally one where the mistake was entering into a contract where they were not valid. Interpretation of the contract found a clear allocation of risks, which shows that while mistake is pleaded it is superceded by risk allocation in the contract.

Essay argument: Mutual mistake as to quality, from Bell v. Lever bros. is fundamentally unfit for purpose and should no longer exist. 

Point: it creates confusion within counsel, judges and clients

Evidence: Arshad 

Analysis: Statement from judge about void/voidable which is incorrect, mention of mistake in equity (Hastings-Bass rule), judge confusion about nature of performance for mistake, the plea was dropped on appeal and decided by other grounds. Therefore, the function of mistake is only to add confusion to cases.

Link: Therefore, the continued existence of a useless doctrine of mistake creates confusion and wastes time within the courts and must be changed. 

Counter argument: Mutual mistake as to quality has to exist to protect the parties in exceptional circumstances

Evidence: Credit du Nord

Analysis: This case demonstrates the need to have a doctrine of mistake to rescue the parties from having to perform under obligations that are impossible from the moment they are made. 

Link: Therefore, this doctrine must exist in order to protect parties in such situations.

Counter-counter argument: The Credit du Nord could be explained using another legal doctrine that avoids the confusion found in Arshad.

Evidence: Doctrine of frustration (Taylor v. Caldwell)

Analysis: The doctrine of frustration exists in similar ways without invoking mistake and allows discharge of the contract when performance is impossible. Given that impossibility of performance and non-existence of subject matter were the grounds under which that case was decided, there was no need to invoke mistake which may cause confusion. 

Link: Therefore, the doctrine of mistake in this area serves no purpose given that cases where it has been plead successfully do not need to rely on mistake. 

Sum-up: Overall, the doctrine of mistake for mutual mistakes as to quality are irrelevant in cases where it is plead unsuccessfully all it does is cause confusion among the court, and in cases where it is plead successfully there are other legal doctrines which could discharge the parties without reliance on mistake. 
