---
title: Contracts Damages II
---

Three different ways of doing damages for a contract. Expectation interest which is putting the party where they would have been if the contract was performed. Reliance interest, the expenses taken in detrimental reliance and lastly the restitution interest from unjust enrichment.

Can't recover for injury to feelings. Cost of cure, and intention to cure and equally the proportionality and they'll look at the value or diminished value. 

WWF v. World Wrestling -> They sued for infringement of the name, so there was a settlement where World Wrestling Foundation is allowed to use the name some times but they used too much and WWF sued to get money, the restitution interest for that contract. There weren't damages given but there was an injunction granted. 

Devenish Nutrition v. Sanofi Aventis -> Compensatory damages, user damages, exemplary damages and account of profits. Exemplary damages are designed to compensate for bad behaviour. 

Qualifications, there are obligations, they need to mitigate losses. Losses are not recoverable if too remote. Causation requirements and intervening causes. Position with non-financial losses, damages for pain and suffering. 

Limiting factors 1 - Causation

Galoo ltd. v. Bright Grahame Murray -> Firm of auditors were they liable for trading losses for a company that they audited. The company is trading and they kept on trading because their books made them think that they were in an okay position and would have stopped had they known that they would have known their position. In this case it was not enough causation because the loss was caused by the trade. Must be an effective or dominant cause. Distinguish between breach of contract causing a loss, or breach of contract that enables a loss to be sustained.

Surrey CC v. Bredero Homes -> Covenants of sale of land setting limits of a number of properties. They exceeded the limits and then Surrey CC said that if they had known they were building this many houses then they would have sold the land higher. Found to be that there was no loss therefore no damages. 

Hadley v. Baxendale -> Hadley was a mill owner with a contract with Baxendale a courrier to transport mill parts to an engineer. There was an extra 5 days where the mill could not be used because of slow delivery. The damages should be those that flowed naturally from the breach. Or losses that were reasonably contemplated by both parties at the time they contracted. The breaching party should have foreseen. Or special knowledge means that the breaching party had to be proven to know. Liable if they could foresee as a serious poossibility this kind of loss. 

Courts will consider how much each parties knows. Their background and expertise. Ability to estimate extent of the risk. How much each wants to use what the other provides. Insurance and the relationship between the parties.

Courts have a lot of leeway with these two provisos. 

The loss would occur seriously if the contract was breached. 

Heron II -> Hires a ship to transport sugar to Basrah and it is 9 days late as a result of taking on other cargo and detours. The price of sugar went down during that time. So were those losses payable. The hirer had not been told that they were intending to sell sugar there, but the shipper knew that the sugar trade in Basrah. CA said that knowing about the sugar market in Barsah then the damages flowed naturally.

Victoria Laundry v. Newman Industries -> Boiler being sold and it is broken in transit, and it is delayed 5 months. D knew that P had a laundry business and they said so in negotiations. They wanted to claim back profits of sixteen pounds per day if the contract had been fulfilled, they also tried to claim for a government contract they could not bid on. CA said that they could recover their natural profits since those flowed naturally. However the contract is too remote. 

Jackson v. Royal Bank of Scotland -> Trading to supply dog toys from Thailand, and RBS had a letter of credit for which Jackson was a beneficiary. The markup was attached and shown to the buyer. The contract was cancelled and they bought directly because the bank showed the markup to the buyer. What was the loss. The loss for the contract. HoL said that it was a loss flowing naturally and therefore the full 4 years of the contract were awarded though there was a sliding scale.

Parsons v. Uttley Ingham -> Installs a refigeration on a farm to store pig food. There is a ventilation problem as a result of instilation in the refrigerator. The food goes moldy and the pigs died. They tried to claim for the death of the pigs, and future pigs. CA says that they could recover for repairs and the unit, and the death of the pigs but the future pigs being born is too remote. 

Simpson v. London & North Western Railway -> Contract with NWR to transport goods to an agricultural show. Arrives too late, sues for damages, and damages granted since NWR should have known. 

Transfield Shipping v. Mercator Shipping -> They are doing a ship but the ship was returned 9 days late, and because it was so late then the subsequent contract party was able to negotiate a better price for hiring the ship after that. What level of loss was the people who returned late liable for. HoL moved away from foreseeability but about whether D had accepted responsibility for the loss. They were only liable for the 9 days. You had to consider if D had assumed liability for the risk. HoL the second charter was more about volatility in the market. Not really the fault of the breaching party. In the past it was about the nature and not the extent of the loss. In the shipping world liability is usually limited. 

Supershield ltd. v. Siemens Building Technology -> Flood at an office as a result of a defective valve instillation. Was it foreseeable that the tank would have kept on filling up and they did accept the loss therefore damages.

Sylvia Shipping v. Progress Bulk Carriers -> Plan to hire a ship but not able to do so on the basis that the ship was not well maintained enough. Those losses were foreseeability but they argued that they didn't accept those cases. The court said that it is generally still H v. B and only in situations where it is necessary to think about assumption of risk, or where there is extreme liability or being contrary to market liabilities then there will be a change to it. 

MITIGATION OF LOSS

They must take all reasonable steps to minimise loss.

British Westinghouse co v. Underground Electric Railway -> Case where there was a contract to supply turbines of a particular efficency and they used them for a while but then switched them to super efficient turbines by another company. They used less coal and the courts said that there was no loss, and the savings were greater and therefore the losses were negated so there was nothing to be done.

Payzu v. Saunders -> Silk case, delivery to be made monthly and then a cheque will be given to pay. They changed terms to switch to cash on delivery since the first delivery the cheque was delayed. They tried to differ their price. Duty to mitigate losses, and the cash on delivery you could have avoided subsequently higher silk prices. Should have been pragmatic. 

Banco de Portugal v. Waterlow -> Waterlow has a contract to supply bank notes to the bank, and they were persuaded to deliver the notes to a rogue. The bank withdraws existing notes and gets new ones printed. HoL Said that it was not an unreasonable expense on the circumstances.

Chaplin v. Hicks -> Loss of chance case. Beauty pagent with a chance for people to get a prize. Letter to give the woman a letter inviting her to the final. Had she been in the contest she might have had a chance. So they gave 25% of damages.

Levicom International Holdings v. Linklaters -> Intervening causes, did not give proper advice on something. The claimant would have acted the same way regardless so the claimant would have reacted in some other way. 