---
title: Contract Law Summative
---

Question: Should the threshold to find operative mistake be higher or lower?

Mistake is at cross purposes with the English legal tradition. English contract law is built upon objectivity, yet mistake is subjective as it harks back to continental theory that contract law is to give effect to the subjective will of each party, and mistake under that rubric is “the greatest defect that can occur in the contract.”  Mistake is necessarily subjective as what is a mistake is contingent on the mind of the parties. However in our legal tradition we give effect not to the will of each party but the objective steps they take to demonstrate their will. The attempt to marry the two has been unhappy, creating uncertainty, distorting markets, and creating inefficiencies. mistake in most cases is better amalgamated into existing doctrines. The threshold for mistake is in most situations too low, as mistake itself should be subsumed into other doctrines.

The first mistake to be examined is mutual mistake for res extincta, which appears uncontroversial and following neatly from the non habet rule. It is attested to in case law  and seems beyond reproach. However, res extincta distorts the market, and creates inefficiencies such that it is better understood as being part of breach of contract. First of all, res extincta does not breach non habet, this is because the act of giving and the act of promising are two different actions. Therefore, promising to sell what you do no have does not broach non habet. Secondly, authority comes from 1856 which as noted  is much before modern communication technologies which put the seller of goods in a much better position to know their stock. In effect res extincta allows a seller to pose as someone who has goods on offer and that action distorts a given market. The correct approach is found the McRae  case, where there was implied warranty. Therefore, the true breach and action is found, you promised goods, you could not fulfil your promise and the breach is for breach of that promise. As such res extincta covers the liability for the party who is best placed to mitigate their liability and in doing so enables distortion of the market, which interferes with both contractual freedom, as actors are not able to freely gain the goods and services they seek, but also distorting the efficient operation of the market. It equally incentivises such action as the seller suffers no loss in a contract that is found to be void ab initio, they need only return the money for the goods they did not have and may proceed without covering the losses in detrimental reliance undertaken by the other party. Therefore, res extincta mutual mistake, is too broad in that a finding of operative mistake renders a contract void ab initio and that in itself is incorrect. Mistake should be so narrow as to not exist. 

It could be argued that the creation of an implied warranty needlessly weakens the negotiation position of a seller selling goods they do not possess, however this is fanciful. A seller going through the motions to promise something and cause another to act in detrimental reliance should have their negotiation position weakened, and equally this would only apply in situations where there were no goods to sell. That it always applies may appear harsh, even in situations where the buyer does not seek a warranty or acts recklessly, but the act of promising goods in a marketplace imposes duty arising from detrimental reliance. Therefore, res extincta as a class of mistake should itself go extinct.

The second species of mutual mistake to be examined is res sua, mistake to title, this is largely beyond the operation of common law as it is covered by statute  and this creation of implied term is the model for how res extincta should be approached at law. Though in case law  mistake was found, this was the earlier equitable mistake, and it existed prior to statute. The statute is on sound foundations as allowing someone to pose as a seller may distort the market as mentioned earlier. Therefore, res sua as breach of contract through violation of an implied term is better than mistake, and applying operative mistake to it is a mistake in itself. 

The third and fourth species of mutual mistake are to do with impossibility, factual  and legal . Void ab initio seems correct here as the contract is impossible, but why is it necessary to invoke mistake. At this point it is clear that both parties have acted to create a nullity on account of mutual misunderstanding, they agreed on certain terms but the facts are non-actionable, and to distinguish from frustration were non-actionable from the start. Mistake itself however is too subjective of a word and the impediment is not that the parties were mistaken but the contract in their minds but that the contract was impossible from the beginning, as such impossibility is a better expression of the rubric. The threshold is correct for finding a void contract, but not by mistake, instead by impossibility of performance. 

The next kind of mutual mistake relates to identity of the subject matter, this is difficult to prove, and is interlinked  with the final kind of mutual mistake to be examined. Generally, a mistake as to identity of the subject matter can be treated as uncertainty. Where there is scope for mistake as to subject matter it indicates a lack of either party to specify what they meant in certain terms  therefore there is no mistake but uncertainty. Invoking mistake, involves subjectivity unnecessarily and mischaracterizes the facts, and therefore again in this area mistake should be narrowed to the point of non-existence. The effect is the same as operative mistake void ab initio, but the justification is based on the objective conduct of the parties lending certainty and simplifying the law. 

The final cultivar of mutual mistake is the most difficult to treat, mutual mistake as to quality. The obvious danger of a broad doctrine of mutual operative mistake is that it could be invoked post facto to evade a bad bargain . This could be invoked through res extincta, as indeed it has been raised in America  where the subject matter being a certain cow, was held to not exist because the cow being sold was a calf and not barren. The specific cow did not exist and therefore the contract was void. As such quality can be distorted such that it resembles other legal issues.

Bell  is the principal case which created the concept of mutual mistake as to quality, with Lord Atkin, delivering the majority verdict creating the concept of common law mistake. The case was clearly a case of misrepresentation and but for the muddled pleas , evidence, and the jury not wishing to sanction Bell and Snelling with the label of fraud , it would have been as such. The initial mistake plea is insightful, as the Lever Bros. counsel claimed that the mistake was Bell and Snelling violating their own contracts through private dealings . Even more telling was that mistake was not even mentioned in arguments until the fraud pleas had fallen through. Clearly misrepresentation was the case here: two employees acted and then covered up their actions, creating an assumption that they were good employees and this assumption was inducing for the subsequent dealings from that point. Mistake only arose because of the muddled pleas and was accepted for policy reasons . Lord Wright, the judge at first instance, and Lord Atkin, who delivered the majority verdict in the House of Lords, used continental will theory to create a common law doctrine of mistake . A doctrine where such a plea of mistake was technically possible, though with significant barriers. The state of the law of this mistake follows from Bell, you got what you wanted therefore no mistake. In effect a legal doctrine was born and then given such high bars that it could not be used. There was great risk, that this would be broadened in such a way to ruin the objective nature of English contract law. 

The mistake must go to the heart of the contract and the only quality that is sufficient to reach this level is usually nonexistence of subject matter  this is the only possible action under such a punitive doctrine of mistake as a void contract means no property flows but that is obviously of little issue if the subject matter doesn’t exist. This area of nonexistence is already well covered by other doctrines such as implied warranty of existence following McRae, as well as misrepresentation, which is itself a form of induced mistake, and impossibility. That being said Great Peace  does create relatively clear criteria for finding common mistake as to quality, but they are extremely limited and need to be proved objectively. Given the futility of pleading mutual mistake as to quality there is no utility in its continued existence and it will languish unused. This does create certainty of contract. It forces parties to decide liability on their own and enhances contractual freedom through that mechanism.

The next variety of mistake is unilateral mistake, which functions well in an objective sense to promote certainty and prevent bad behaviour by a buyer. This is demonstrated well in case law  as the seller could not be expected to know the mind of a man, and could only examine their objective conduct. The finding of no operative mistake here demonstrates that the threshold needn’t be broadened as if it where it could allow people to easily evade bargains they had made. There is the opposite side with ‘snapping up’ cases, in this case the law sides with the seller who made an apparent mistake. The effect of this is to protect sellers from a buyer’s bad behaviour. This is too broad as the seller is once again best placed to know that they are offering a bad deal, and the fact that the contract is void is needlessly prejudicial to third parties. However, this is where room may be found for equitable mistake, which would protect third party rights, while also allowing a seller to protect themselves should the worst come to pass. Equity exists not to protect from bad bargains but bad behaviour, and snapping up is bad behaviour but not to the point that third parties should be prejudicially affected. Equally, voidability would allow for efficient breach for the seller.

The final variety of mistake is mistake as to identity. This is a muddled area of law marred by the fact that the principal case  is not to do with identity at all but creditworthiness. Mr Patel, was utterly immaterial it was fraudulent misrepresentation as to creditworthiness done by means of stolen identity. This case demonstrates the overly punitive nature of operative mistake since it made the contract void, and the bona fide third-party purchaser for value without notice was affected by the finding in the case. The credit company had more ability to cover their own liability and in such a regime, consumers risk acquiring goods without title and then are forced to return them. As such, misrepresentation better characterizes most mistaken identity cases. Cases where the identity is crucial to the consideration may exist but that goes beyond merely the notion that the intention to deal with one particular person is demonstrated in writing. Therefore, mistaken identity should have a higher threshold to be operative. 

Overall, mistake in general harks to subjective intention but as we know as English contract lawyers “the devil himself knows not the thought of a man,”  the foray of mistake into English contract law has been unhappy and creates numerous issues, its nature as vitiating consent necessarily making contracts void makes them overly punitive particularly towards third party rights. Most species of mistake should be narrowed to the point of extinction and disuse, or subsumed into other doctrines that avoid the trappings of subjectivity and the uncertainty, inefficiencies, and market distortions held therein.
