---
title: Day 20
---

Today I wanted to drink, and the day before, and the day before, and the day before. It’s been a while. I’m in recovery. Yesterday I looked at the amber liquid entombed on the top shelf of the supermarket. I thought about how I had my ID, I thought about buying it. My first relapse. What a way to deal with a sudden rationalization and rectification of my life plans. I didn’t. I’m too much a coward for that. I thought about it. I thought about how it tasted, but it wasn’t the taste driving me. It was the oblivion that lay beyond. The now defunct bottle opener. I used to open it with my keys giving me jagged cuts up and down my fingers. They hurt less than being without booze. The good thing about being sad is it gives me much more material to write with. Like I’m bleeding out onto the page. Don’t run too far with that metaphor. A bleeding woman. A tentative woman. A piece of paper covered in blood. I did it anyway. It’s all I can do. 

Recovery is not a linear process. People think they’ll get better day by day. The trend line is encouraging but the individual data points aren’t. They always say that but it’s different to experience it. To feel your body, disagree with you on what capabilities you thought you had. Find yourself embarrassed by it. Seeing what you hoped you could do fall through your fingers. Physical and mental recovery are the same. The body isn’t a machine. Not a well calibrated one. It’s a beat-up machine, it has ‘quirks,’ that are outside the design spec. A charger that you have to hold at the right angle to insert into the laptop. A phone that shocks you if you hold it while it’s charging. Every machine can get like this. Even planes. A hundred lives all gone because someone didn’t figure out the quirks of a door seal. 

Maybe some people’s bodies aren’t like this. A walking breathing disaster, ready to fall apart at once. Their knees fit right, their fingers don’t bend back too far. Their pulse isn’t too low, their temperature isn’t too low. They don’t bruise so easily. They don’t carry all their damage stuffed into their head, like a can with dents in it, bulging at the roof. Telling you, warning you not to consume its contents. Botulism this way comes. I’m one of those machines with quirks. With so many. Dented into me by years of percussive maintenance. It needs a factory reset. Refurbishment at the plant. Recycled and rebuilt into something useful, the defective parts dumped in a landfill somewhere. Scrapped for parts. 

I want to drink. To ignore what I am. To ignore it. To have the present cling to me forever. Somewhere I can exist without needing to think about any of it. I don’t have to be gross. I don’t have to be useless. I can just be. I can be somewhere. I can be anything, I can be anywhere. It’s all possible, when I’m drinking. Even in the act bringing my horizon closer it feels like it’s further away. Able to obfuscate, mirage itself out of my vision. I want to drink. I’ll still want to drink. I’ll never not want to drink again. 
