---
title: Day 66
---

Today I did not want to drink. I did want to smoke a little though. I heard the news that my country was going to ban the sale of cigarettes to anyone born after 2009. It's a pretty stupid proposal. The idea is to logistically strangle all smokers out of a habit that people have deemed to be disgusting. I think people who think that they can dictate what is and isn't disgusting to other people without their consent when their conduct only affects them is disgusting. But I suppose I lack the authoritarian mindset necessary to be a politician. 

Fundementally I view the state as an act of God. It is a force that is hard to conceptualize as an individual and it shapes our reality. States are some of the most powerful tools humans have invented. They are the summation of wills and capable of crushing you. No matter what. No matter what you think you will be completely impotent to do anything. That's why it's better to encourage systematic skepticism of the state. It means that these incursions will not go questioned. 

Nowadays people go along with it. They're happy to see the state restrict people's lives. Because it's other people's lives. They deserve it. They don't deserve liberty. They're too stupid, too poor, too whatever to have their own freedom. All these pet authoritarians who fail to imagine that one day they might be on the other side of the equation. Of course it's much easier when you've been hit by state restrictions directly. Easier to argue against someone who's strangling you, than to argue for someone else not to get strangled and the argumentation doesn't matter. It's the creation of systems of thinking that look at the process with scruitiny and the right scruitiny in the right places. It's not so easy to do in the end. 