---
title: Day 36
---

Today I didn't really want to drink so badly. I've been so very tired today. Onto the next thing. Burn the next fire, catch the next piece of tinder. Make it so that whatever happened before doesn't matter anymore. Become the flame. Don't think for the smoke and ashes, what gets destroyed. Jump to the next thing and the next thing. It is strange being so very tired but still being motivated still finding that will inside yourself to keep pushing.

I run because of what I run from. I fight to keep the feelings of fear that beset me at bay. For if I do something productive then I"m confronting what I fear. I'm going through the valley of darkness. It is what I have to do. There is no option, no intent. There is only the mission, step after step. The next one and the next one rolling on and on. 

Someday if I stay the course I'll be able to look and see how far I've come. How many fuses I've burned down. Wake up in somewhere new. Wake up as someone new. I wonder how that will feel. I already have a life to look back on in strangling detail. Yet the sum total of my accomplishments rounds out to nil. I have not put anything of value into the world. I have only been a parasite. I am nothing, I will return to nothing. I am nothing that has the coneit to act as though I am more than nothing. I am not worth a single penny.

If I stay the course maybe the warmth I bring will be worth more than the sum total of what I have destroyed. I'll never know unless I keep on burning on.