---
title: Day 29
---

Today I wanted to drink. It’s valentine’s day and shells are flying and falling all around. All held under the black star of a Friday the 13th. I would love to say that I didn’t believe in superstition. It would be so gratifying to just call it all mumbo jumbo. Some hippy fucking bullshit people used to explain why the world didn’t make sense. Trouble is the world still doesn’t make sense. And you’re still left to pick up the pieces, despite knowing all the different ways that the world has cosmically aligned to fuck you over. Down to the last atom and the last decimal point all calculating oblivion. 

The last molecule of alcohol broken down into formaldehyde. Crossing the blood brain barrier interfering with the signals in my body. Turning them into a fried circuit. Just so I can obliviate the knowledge of my own coming oblivion. 

Superstition is a means to an end. You can negotiate with that tornado. You can treat it like a person. Bake it cookies, give it good sacrifices. It doesn’t matter. The stars are still aligned in a constellation of pain. You will hurt. At least you can blame yourself now. If you had saluted that magpie. If you had prayed in a different way then that hell wouldn’t be following you around. It gives you confidence to believe that what is broken will not continue to be so. It gives you faith in something. 

I wish I could believe it worked. I know it doesn’t. I still knock on wood and salute every magpie. I do it because what else can I do. Beg on my knees. Tears in my eyes. You can’t sway mathematical certainty with enough pain. Tears are meaningless. Self-harm, at the inability to recognize your own circumstances and shift your position accordingly. Tears are the sign of a failed exit strategy. Superstition is a means to an end to feel better about it. You got fucked but maybe just maybe you’ll be able to not get fucked next time. The power is all in your hands, and so is the bottle. 
