---
title: Day 21
---

Today I didn’t want to drink, because I already felt sick and nauseous. I have had a cough since December so I figured I should get it checked out while I still have it. There’s nothing worse than seeing a doctor while you’re not sick. I’m a hypochondriac, I’m just weak enough that people can blame me when I can’t do things, but not weak enough, not sick enough, not crippled enough to be someone worthy of sympathy when I’m sick. I feel like a dramatic hypochondriac whenever I’m in front of a doctor. I don’t even want to be sick. There’s no defects in this product, I’m perfectly able to exist without aid or help like a normal person. I’m not ill. I’m just stupid. I’ve always hidden behind being sick to avoid responsibilities, sports days, Mondays I didn’t like. My second year of college I was practically always absent. It hurts. My body always hurts. It’s normal. I’m normal. 

When I was in elementary school, I talked about headaches and my parents bought me a water bottle. It was blue. They told me to drink from it regularly. So I did, dutifully. Like I was a fish out of water. It still hurt. But I couldn’t say it hurt. If it hurt then that would make them wrong and they couldn’t be wrong. So I had to be wrong about my condition. Besides I’m not dramatic. I’m not some second rate actor. I’m just deluding myself into an excuse so I can do less than everyone else but feel less bad about it. That’s what’s wrong with me. My eyes can’t be trusted. If I make someone angry then what’s the point in knowing that thing. What’s the point in doing anything if it makes the important people to me angry. 

I should take out all of what I am. Everything that makes me up. All the stuffing. Piece by piece remove it from my body. Take in what everyone else gives me. Make me into something soft for them. Something pliable. Ignore the reality inside myself. My own reality is delusional and dramatic. It is the kind of thing that will ruin my life. I have to make myself into something normal. A creature that other people will like without reservation. That’s why I won’t drink. So I can be normal like them. 
