---
title: Day 38
---

Today I wanted to drink. Just out of pure exhaustion. I feel tired even though I slept. I feel tired to my bones. Caught half way between the vision quest of fucked up neurotransmitters that is brought about by 4 hours of sleep and a fully rested soul with all the things necessary to induce happiness. The worst of everything, tired enough to feel tired, but not so tired so as to pass through the valley of darkness, beyond the tiredness. 

My body is telling me that it's upset and my brain is conscious enough to listen. That is the problem with this level of exhaustion. Enough to make me upset, to make me annoyed, to make me conscious of the blade I stand dancing over. To know the valley of darkness on either side. To know that in all odds that's the place I'm going. That it's all going to be for nothing. The cuts on my feet, all the bleeding. All it will do, will make my fall all the quicker. My destruction all the sweeter. The beauty to be found in futility. As I scream all the way down, down, down, down. Bonecrushing depths. Becoming more and more broken. Till I limp out the hole a different kind of animal. Something worse. Something less than it was before it reached down here. Bones reconfigured in a less effective way, than how they were before. 

Nothing will be the same ever again. Every impact will be permanent. Every time the ankle is sprained, the nerve damage increases. Until the point it will never be able to serve it's function. It is fated. Written into the nerve fibres, the mylin sheath around them. Course charted by misery.