---
title: Day 6
---

Today I wanted to drink because I walked past a pub that had my favourite whiskey. My boyfriend flies back tomorrow and I don’t really want to deal with that fact. Though as days without drinking go by, I do notice in myself that I find it easier to compartmentalize away bad thoughts. That is to put them in some place in my brain without having to confront them. The whole reason I quit was because I had a breakdown while blackout drunk, partially apparently crying saying I didn’t want him to leave. Today I find it easier to confront that because it goes into a part of my brain I do not observe or acknowledge. I know what will happen tomorrow will happen but it is as though I’m observing without acknowledging. Perhaps this is disassociation, something I’m not unfamiliar with but it feels weird to use it to cover up my emotions instead of alcohol. I’ve also noticed my vision improving since I stopped drinking. 

I don’t know what will happen when the hammer comes down and I won’t be able to ignore the coming reality. Humans are if anything able to delude themselves until the very end, some of them until beyond even that. Sunk cost fallacy mixing in the bottom of a glass. I was able to ignore my own alcoholism despite it staring me in the face. When I woke up with alcohol caking my mattress and a burning nostril. How can such an innocent desire to haunt old haunts again, to enjoy the taste of something. It starts out something simple and then it ends with you dead or alone. I was delusional about my own drinking. I still maintain the ability to delude myself about being okay about tomorrow. Maybe in the course of my drinking I did pick up a useful skill, being able to delude myself so completely and utterly that the need for complete and total oblivion is completely and totally erased. It’s getting easier today. Maybe it will be tougher tomorrow, maybe I built the willpower. These mental walls and battlements, will only know the strength they hold once tested. Who’s to say. I don’t want to go back to that state, belly dragging on the ground full of booze, delusions and pain masked behind an ever-growing pile of beer cans. It’s no way to live, and it makes it so that you won’t have to much longer. Suicide in slow motion, the sugar that makes the bitter pill so easy to swallow. That’s why I won’t drink. 
