---
title: Day 8
---

Today I wanted to drink. I don’t really know why. Force of habit maybe. Or just lingering loneliness. I’ve been studying today, and now I more or less understand why my mock exam didn’t go so well. I suppose it’s taught me that my criminal law lectures aren’t as good as just going to the textbook. I feel so achy and sick, I feel like I’m stuck above the earth in a little capsule and everyone else is so far away. Alcohol is a companion in its own right. It’s a ticket to join with other people, it’s a place to be, it’s a place where you don’t have to be. It’s a thing to do, it’s a thing to be. I miss it, I miss everyone. I miss everything, I miss when I was happy. I miss being cared for. I miss it. I want to go back to the airport where I saw him last, I want him to be there. At least when I’m drunk, I can ignore the part of my head telling me that it’s impossible. I can live with the possibility that I’m not stuck in that capsule above the earth so far away from everyone. 

When I’m drunk it doesn’t matter where I am there’s still that possibility that things might be better. When I was drinking, I could steal possibility. When I get depressed, when I turn that key in my chest to ignite my resolve, I can use alcohol to get the process going. Now I can’t recover from my issues, it makes that recovery time take longer. I can’t smooth it over. I have to ruminate. I have to live with that feeling that everything is falling apart and I can’t do anything and all my dreams are doomed. I hate it. I want to be able to believe in myself. I want to substitute anything. My blood, my bones, my brain, my relationships. I want to burn it all if it means I can warm myself with belief in myself, with some kind of confidence, some possibility. I would die happy if it I could make myself feel like it was worth it, like I was happy, like I wouldn’t have to be cold and lonely and in pain anymore. I hate this. Yet I still won’t drink. I walked past the rows of bottles in my mom’s house; I looked at the honey whiskey. While I look at my relationships feeling like they’re deteriorating anyway for no reason other than the distance. I don’t know why I won’t drink. There’s no reason but I still won’t. 
