---
title: Day 22
---

Today I wanted to drink. I walked past my usual pub and considered drinking my usual beer. I didn’t. Of course I didn’t. I really wanted to. I still want to. I want to feel that wonderful cold beer going and filling my stomach. I want to feel the fuzz in my brain. I really want to. Today was a good day. I got my first grade back and it wasn’t the best but for what I wrote it was generous and it doesn’t preclude me getting an A in the class overall. Most of my friends were not so lucky. I was surprised. I was a little unhappy that they didn’t do so well. I wanted people to celebrate. I was also really happy that they didn’t do so well because I am exactly the kind of person to enjoy other people’s misery if it means I get to feel good about myself. 
I felt bad but not bad enough to drown out the feeling good I felt on seeing them fail. I’m not a very good person. A good person would feel worse. I suppose they don’t want me feeling bad that they didn’t do so well. They’d probably also feel like I was crazy if I told them how good I felt seeing them fail. I have an entitled misanthropic streak it seems. It takes a rare kind of person to hate themselves but also hate most other people. Some alcohol-tinged synapse.

 My brain has been broken by people, by lack of sleep, by pumping booze past the blood brain barrier. Neurotransmitters sent irregularly, synapses connected badly. The kind of brain that would make someone like this. It makes sense why other people would enjoy this so much. Being able to put yourself above someone else, rather than crawling on your belly like some snake. Trying to sneak around and bite people’s heels. Bring them down to my level. It’s the only way I’d ever compete. 

This week has been frustrating in general. I have felt better but more as a result of getting back to work. Studying is healthier for me than rotting away at home. Finding something to occupy my brain. It has also made me considerably less creative and more boring. My mind is being occupied by cases. I can rattle off what English case defines what a lease is, down to the metaphor used by the specific judge to reach that end point. In such a brain of facts and judgements there isn’t any room for creativity. The comment I got on my essay was much the same. Warding me from poetic writing and towards a utilitarian form of legal writing. Brevity and facts over verbosity. I still find myself in love with the way words come together in the English language. The feeling conveyed by the specific choices you choose to make as you write. It is deeply enjoyable. It’s a shame I won’t have the choice of doing a thing like that. At least not until I become a judge if I ever do. 

It’s a shame, a necessary one, an understandable one. Spartan language that removes any and all perfection is much easier to understand and much harder to argue. Cases have been fought and lost on the specific verbiage of metaphor made in an argument. To a lawyer there are facts, arguments and judgements, thesis, antithesis, synthesis. To such a process impurity and imperfection is anathema. There is no room for beauty except the beauty of a clear and crisp judgement. Not for me though, I find the way the facts, the verbiage sinks into the contours of my brain so comforting. I hope someday I’ll get to use it. 
