---
title: Day 49
---

Today I wanted to drink. I had a hard day at work. I did a lot today. I did a big presentation for class. I worked hard on it. I rehearsed it from the very start of the day. Speaking from no notes. I was good about that. I had a long class. I suppose it's my friends and my professor who're the reason that I feel better about things predominantly though. I had a long and good day. I didn't do that much work ultimately I feel. I suppose that seems very wishy washy from the start. I did what was expected of me, and it went okay. It wasn't great, but it was okay. 

After class I had to go help out at a law firm for one of my extracurriculars. It came as a bit of a shock since I usually do it at the university. I had to head across town as quickly as I could. The tube was late. I was so anxious about it. The sum of that anxiety was arriving early. Which felt better. I did my job well, and got complimented on it. It was a basic job, just keeping minutes. Writing fast and well. The swirling words I write. My handwriting isn't very good, but it is fast. I like focus on something. I think I forget that when I'm doing so bad. Like my feelings eat away the coping mechanism. The key erroding away in a pool of caustic substance. 

That's how it gets you I suppose. You lose the ability to do the things that would help. All there is, is you and your bed. The warmth underneath. Hidden from the world. There are times in life where nothing matters, and most of those are clustered towards the beginning and end of your life. When your senses are cut down. Diminished. There is only touch and warmth. Makes sense you'd want to retreat to that last redabout when beset on all sides. When you're overwhelmed. But of course your problems persist. The enemy is still at the gates. No matter where you hide. It's about taking stock of what you need to do. Fighting yourself. To solve your own problems. I still didn't do a whole lot today, but if I could feel better after doing a little I suppose I can imagine how much better more would feel.