---
title: Day 3
---

Today I wanted to drink because my phone happened to find where the alcohol was hidden, it was under the bottom of my bed, out of sight out of mind, my phone slipped past the mattress and fell onto it. It used to be out of sight out of mind and when I heard the clink of the phone against the booze, I was struck by the strange sound it made. I couldn’t place the phone and so I spent a while looking around the room with my boyfriend, my adorable Matthew, trying to find it. He was so lovely helping me find my phone. I took a while to find it and when I did, I was struck by how lazy I had been to leave it in the apartment. An alcoholic is only as good as their stores and I haven’t lived in a house without alcohol ever in my adult life. The concern is always where the next drink will be. Where you’ll find it. What it will be. The idea of being without the necessary fuel to survive a day’s events so unconscionable. Of course, now it has to be rehidden or vacated the apartment. Of course, by the same token alcohol is hidden in every store in every place. It is so endlessly accessible. The only barrier to its acquisition being money and willpower. Money is of no issue and willpower is the only real bulwark. Perhaps it would only be a symbol of how I had moved on if I lived in a house without alcohol, perhaps it would be meaningless. I am struck with how apathetic I feel towards it. I mean of course I still want to taste it, dissolve my consciousness into it, but today wasn’t a tough day really. Which makes writing an account difficult. Of course, I thought about the taste of sake I always will. Even disgusting as it was now, I do still want it but it feels more passive, something I’m capable of dispensing with simply and easily today. That’s why I wanted to drink. That’s why I won’t drink.
