---
title: Day 5
---

Today I wanted to drink out of pure boredom. I haven’t been doing so well emotionally. My boyfriend is leaving the country soon and I know that’s going to crush me. He’s the whole reason I quit drinking. I got blackout drunk and caused problems for him. Things are better now. A lot better but I had to quit and try and look at getting therapy. So, it goes in the life of an addict. Today is another reflection of that. When you drink you always have an activity to fall back on, and when I drink everything is interesting or at least everything means something. Even a dumb joke is funny, every interaction means something. More than anything it lets me siphon possibility, when I don’t break down and cry. Though even breaking down and crying qualifies as something to do. When I drink, I always feel a fire in my chest that lets me think that everything is possible. I don’t need to worry about the future, or the past, there is only the bottom of the bottle. Me and the chemicals drowning my brain. Communing with the meaningless nothingness of the world. Nothing matters, and everything is possible, I can go where I want and shout and look down at the whole world and the whole world can’t touch me. It can’t touch me when I’m so high up. I’m just a ball of emotions, I’m a comet in the sky, I’m a fire, burning inside of me and outside of me. It would be better to just burn up than have to live with consequences. Getting black out drunk was great except for the fact I had to come to. I was able to burn away all my worries, all my memories all my pain, it was all gone, it had to come back. I had to live in a world. What’s the point of living like this. I should drink. I won’t drink. Because I still have him, because there’s a chance for something better, at least for now, and burning myself up would jeopardize that chance. That’s why I won’t drink.
