---
title: Day 39
---

Today I didn't think about drinking. Today I was struck by just how long it had been since I last drank. In the grand scheme of things it is not a terribly long time, but it feels long. I can feel my brain disentangling itself from alcohol based desire. It's less of a consideration day by day. At this point it becomes obvious the degree to which I was enthralled by alcohol. 

It is the natural state of the anxious mind to find some blanket to cover the spurrious singles from broken neurons spinning a tale of agony. Ankle pain and anxious gnawing the hallmarks of sobriety. Agony demands company or it will eat you alive. Burning you from inside out in electrical fires of frayed nerves. You need insulation, a fuse, somewhere to divert it. Pain makes you better. The scars give character. Like tattoos, showing the measure of a life lived. Stick your arm in the machine, break it apart. It'll make you better. In one way at least. Let the fire spread in you. The embers stick into you. Nothing to extinguish. Of course alcohol only spreads the flame. It makes you feel better, as everything gets torn into pretty colours. For a fleeting moment before all that matters goes away.

I'm burning now. I'm fire now. I'm made of fire. The singals not able to be ignored. Hoping that the heat. That the flames I carry can warm me, can nwarm those around me. That my those singals will not be mollified, will not be insulated, they will burn. They will scar. I can shape the scars into something better. Into a map that might bring me some place worth being. 