---
title: Day 11
---

Today I didn’t want to drink. Which has been something of a first. It’s mostly downwind of my cold robbing me of any appetite whatsoever for anything. I just want to lie in bed and cough my truth. I’ve never liked being sick. I’ve liked acting sick to escape responsibility but that makes the process of being sick more miserable. Since I initially think that my symptoms aren’t that bad and I’m just exaggerating them to fake being sick, then when I get hit with the full force of actually being sick it just leaves me surprised and feeling bad. 

I’m usually more emotional when I’m sick. Like my usual resilience such as it ever existed is even more depleted than usual. When I worked in Japan, I never missed a day of work, but I did go home early twice, once was in November ’24, with a cold. I felt guilty for missing work even though my coworkers sent me home. It was on the day before my ‘weekend,’ that wasn’t actually on Saturday and Sunday so I had three whole days to recover ultimately. I had to go to the doctors because my company was incredibly stringent. We didn’t get sick days, which is common throughout Japan but we also had parts of our salary taken away if we were sick, the hours we missed obviously but also additional bonuses we got for being on time and never missing a day or having booked slots. You lost your bonuses which was a big part of our salaries, in point of fact I lost the booking allowance anyway since you lose that for any absence but it meant that going without a sick note was pretty ruinous. Shitty jobs are shitty that shouldn’t be a surprise. 
I went to the doctor and I could speak Japanese but I was kind of freaked out. The doctors was in a mall pretty near my old apartment, and I felt so guilty wasting everyone’s time and I felt so overwhelmed and lonely. I think I felt pretty profoundly vulnerable too. Which I didn’t like. The doctor was kind and he was impressed with my language skills, I was struck by how kind everyone was. This foreigner comes barging in not really that good at the etiquette, cries while waiting to be seen. Maybe that’s just a benefit of womanhood. 

The next time I saw a doctor over there was after I slipped on the ice and hurt my ankle pretty bad. I was mostly in pain that time. I didn’t feel vulnerable so much, I felt like I had done my duty and that I was actually injured pretty badly. I remember feeling better about it that time, my dad also wired me money to make up for the loss of salary. My manager was a bastard about it but that’s how it is sometimes. 

The other times I was sick, I just sucked it up and wore a mask and went in anyway. In a way that ability to suck it up and just go forward makes me feel better about myself. Like I do my best work when I’m sick and I’m pushing myself. That I can push myself gives me some stupid sense of superiority to everyone else. Not everyone can cough up blood and then go into work the next day, but I could, I did in fact. I judged my coworker for taking any days off. I am a very judgy person. I suppose that’s why I cried when I was sick before, because it meant that I was failing my own standards. It didn’t apply to drinking because I could will myself through it. Though I imagine if I drunk much more and much more often then I wouldn’t have been able to manage. I came close, throwing up before work but I made it. I guess that’s why I won’t drink today.
