---
title: Day 16
---

Today I wanted to drink. It came to me at no particular time for no one reason. I was walking through town and all of a sudden, I felt so aware of myself and the degree to which I wanted to drink. I wanted to taste it and feel it. It wasn’t conscious. It was as if something deep inside the back of my mind bubbled up to the point I could consciously notice it. A yearning for something that I know I can’t have. I then later had to sit through my friends talking about alcohol. It felt weird. I really wanted it. I wanted it more. I wanted it badly. That’s how it is sometimes. The desire to drink. Some days its easy some days its hard. 

Before when I wanted to drink I was walking past pubs. I kept on thinking how out of place I was walking through a working district. I was surrounded with people who had something to them. Hopes, dreams and lives. I had none of that. My drinking might have been me trying to cope with my lack of a life. My longing for one. I still feel like my life hasn’t started, I delude myself about it. Like someone in last place, looking away from the far away runners, trying to ignore the speed they’ve let themselves bleed. I need to get a grip of myself. 

Stopping drinking, I do it because it’s almost a covenant, with me, with my boyfriend, with the world, with my friends. It’s a solemn promise, like a vow or something. I want to but I can’t break it. Maybe because the consequences of breaking it are too much and I’m disincentivized to break it. I don’t think it’s that simple though. That kind of logic feels dishonest it almost feels like breaking my vow on the side without telling everyone else. The kind of obsession with expediency. Rather the reason to keep it should be tautological. It justifies itself and nothing else justifies it. The people around the vow are important but it’s something more that I can’t live with myself if I break. So that’s why even when I’m tempted and it hurts I don’t drink. 
