---
title: Day 28
---

Today I wanted to drink. I wanted to have a nice cold beer. I wanted to take the edge off my life and my lifespan. It’s so simple. Being able to self-harm while having my brain massage itself with good chemicals. Destroying things always feels good. Burning it away, knowing that you did it. Places don’t remember you, but they remember the scars you leave. Your body only remembers the damage you take. So at least make sure it’s self-inflicted. Make the strokes deliberate. Something you can run your hand along. Remember what you did to yourself. 

Every cell in your liver singing to the sound of your own demise. It feels so good how could it possibly be bad. A reward system that never evolved to correct this kind of damage. So long as you bust a nut inside a fertile woman, get her pregnant then evolution has no further concern. If anything, a tribe full of invalids is even more vulnerable to outside attack. All the better for the survival of your genes if you’re taken from the steering wheel as soon as you start to become a burden. 

Stray neurons and electric sparks aren’t very useful. All the better to sever away that defective piece of the gene code. Make sure only the strong survive. Make it so that they need substances to survive. Shape them into the kind of animal that can only die. Can only remove itself. A failed variant to test the limits. How much anxiety is beneficial, how much trauma can a person take. An experiment run by proteins embedded in your soul. Meat in locomotion at the whims of it all. 

I will die having been an alcoholic. I have shortened my life. I have ruined my brain. The die is already cast. All that can be done is to prevent further damage, as I pick up the pieces of an already broken brain and body. Once something breaks, in a real way, you’ll never have the same confidence in it. It will always be something that is capable of being broken, even if it does recover. You will never rely on it ever again. That’s okay. It’s only a rational response. I can accept that I can’t rely on myself like I used to, and no-one else can either. Who would. There’s plenty of functional people out there. I can only ever get in the way. 
