---
title: Day 4
---

Today I wanted to drink because I got a bad grade in my criminal law mock exam. The more I think about it the more annoyed I get. The more I don’t understand it and I don’t want to understand it. I wasn’t given any feedback so all I could do was look over cases, look over the law, and look over my answer to try and triangulate the mistake. Well bad grade it was a B but it was still one of the lowest grades I had ever received and I can’t get bad grades. I don’t have a future if I can’t get good grades. This is all I have. I put in the effort. I studied and I cited case law effectively. I read my answer multiple times and I can’t find the glaring error. Even the errors I thought I had were non operant upon further research. I don’t understand it. Did I cite the wrong case once? Did I use the wrong wording in a section. Was my structure incorrect. It doesn’t make any sense the more I think about it. I can’t understand my predicament and usually when I get this stressed it makes me want to drink. Because I need to be a straight A student otherwise there’s no point in me being here, and I’m no better than anyone else. I worked hard I went to every class, I answered the questions and helped clear the floor for the lecturer, in tutorial I would go and speak up whenever the room fell silent. I don’t understand it. I need to do well or else I’m nothing and nobody will like me and I’ll end up alone and I won’t be able to get a job and I won’t be able to realize the future that I want and I’ll just end up unhappy and alone like always. I don’t want to do that. I just want to drink it away and not feel any kind of worry or emotion. Just obliterate myself. Dissolve my mental capacity in an alcohol slurry until there’s nothing left of me anywhere. Everyone else could do it, everyone else did well, what’s my problem, I’m good at law, I’m good at exams, what’s wrong with me, why do I always do this why do I always screw everything up what’s wrong with me. Nobody’s coming to help me and I can’t save myself. I’m just going to get swept away by the current. I want to black out, be unconscious so it doesn’t matter anymore. It’s harder today than most. I won’t drink today because someone else is with me, but if I were alone, I would have already relapsed. So much for that self-control yesterday. That’s why I won’t drink. 
