---
title: Day 41
---

Today I didn't want to drink. I felt sick and guilty because I was sick. Today is the reflection of a lazy piece of shit who constantly flakes on their friends. I grew up playing up my sickness so I didn't have to go to school. Of 13 years of education I only attended diligently for two of them. My teenage years were a mix of BO, no shaving, non attendance. I hated it so much. I hated everything so much.

There's still some iron ball I carry in my stomach from those years. Desperate, cloying, and so heavy. I didn't really study, I still got good grades. It seeded a bunch of shitty habits. I had a couple of friends but they were sporadic. I never felt all that secure. I tended to see myself as lesser. There was a childhood friend I had a crush on but obviously there was nowhere that could've gone. I think I was made to think of myself as lesser. I moved schools and my first year was pretty tough. 

There was a group of guys who harrassed me. I don't think bullying was what it was. It was sporadic. Enough to keep someone on edge. To keep them isolated and lonely. My first year in new school, aged 11, was a year of decline, decline of my sanity. Decline of my hope. Decline in my ability to be social. Decline in my ability to think of myself as a protagonist, as a person who was worth anything. 

The second year, aged 12 was a year of isolation. I don't believe I've ever been more isolated in my life. I had not a single friend. Not a single person to rely on. I started to attend less. I still got good grades. My childhood friend crush started to form and he drifted into a social group. Somewhere I wanted to but couldn't follow.

Age 13 was more of an upswing. I got closer to my childhood friend's group. I started playing warhammer and went to warhammer club forming those tentative sporadic friendships. I worked hard. Not on friendships that first year was fatal to that. Age 14 was more of the same, though I was still quite isolated, never got invited to parties but I played Dungeons and Dragons with a tentative group of friends. I started watching anime. My hygine did get worse, puberty started. I put off shaving for a long time. Age 15 and 16 were continuing trends. I participated in debate club. While I had some friends my relationship

Age 17 I started to attend school more regularly. I had a group of teachers I enjoyed being taught by, and some of them cared about me. Though there was something of a crisis. Since I had a teacher who cared about me, he noticed my spotty attendance in a way nobody else did. He called a meeting with my parents, and I started therapy. He was a good man. 17 was the most significant decline in social standing. I went on a school trip to China of all places. The first sign of trouble was hotel rooms. None of my friends wanted to room with me. That was fine, I hung out with them in their room. Then, one of the guys he told me that I wouldn't be allowed around them anymore. He was the group leader, and in that teenage law of the jungle sort of way, his words were law. He used physical force to compel this new reality on me. 

I learned a lot that year. I learned a lot about relationships. That they had a use by date. That people would only be as close as the situation would allow. I was cut loose because they weren't getting invited to parties. Guilt by association. Liability found. Sentence carried out. Unnecessary material severed. I was alone again. I realized things about myself. I worked hard and worked hard not for myself but for the approval of my teachers. I formed some friendships but something within me had been broken. I never learned to put enough effort into relationships to really maintain them. I would be cut loose sooner or later. I know in my head that doing that just hastens, or guarantees that outcome, but maybe it's better for friendships to fizzle, than fry and melt. Once you know the face of catastrophe you start seeing it everywhere. Any failure to avoid that. The underlying control systems broken. Leaving a wounded scared little animal. Fatalistic and resigned. 

That's what it means to break a person. To cut the part of them that believes things will be okay out of them. To make them see that nothing will be okay ever again. That's what it means to break. I didn't want to drink when I started writing, but now I want to drink. To break out of that. To go somewhere where everything is okay. I can get there. I know it. The solution is at the bottom of a whiskey glass. And in the gunpowder propellant of a bullet.