---
title: Day 67
---

Today I wanted to drink. I wanted to relapse. I feel nauseous and dizzy anyway. What's the difference between that and this. Screw me up even more. Break me up and pulverize it. There's nothing of value here. Nothing good. Nothing that has been any use to anyone. A liability with pretensions of more. Looking down on parasites while being the very same. There is no escape. I can't become more capable. Not how I am. Falling apart at every and any setback or pain. I can't do anything. Even those things I thought I had been able to fight, end in a constant cycle of conquest and relapse. The seige should have been broken, but here I am stuck in my castle all the same. 

Getting worse feels worse than just being bad. In a sense it's not your fault. The world broke you, turned you into this person with problems. Then you put in the effort, you break out of it. You become a responsible person, a real person, a proper person, and then you get better. You put in effort. That effort pays off, you become a new better version of yourself. You cured yourself. Good for you. 

Then there's a crack, a bleed. The virus is back in your blood stream, and you've lost all your antibodies. That's how it goes. You're back where you started. Just as feverish and broken as you ever were. Same as it ever was. You're the same person. You're worse, you failed. You're surrounded by failure. Your memories reek of it. Because you know you can be better, you know you had that capability. It's fatalistic, because it implies that all that effort was for naught. Maybe if I were a better man, then it could have been different. If my grandmother had wheels, she'd be a bicycle. I want to relapse. How much worse can I get. I'm already back here. Stuck in my room. Stuck as I was. Stuck the same teenager I was. As much as I can blame circumstance, it's me. It's only ever been me. All my success feeds my arrogance. Same as it ever was.