---
title: Day 50
---

Today I wanted to drink. Breaking my streak of not wanting to. I guess if I smoke I don't want to drink. If I drink I do want to smoke though. Chainsmoking 4 cigarettes and then drinking to wash away the taste is one of life's great pleasures. It is a reminder that we aren't in our bodies as a whole, we're in our brain. The body matters insofar as it is useful and connected to the brain. A small adjustment there and all hell breaks loose. I want all hell to break loose. I want to smoke a cigarette. I want to forget about it all. Move on and burn it away. 

I want to hurt. I want hurt. I want to be hurt. I want to write something into my body to distract myself. Every time I get up, something happens. I'm stuck living a life of slipping and falling. It must look funny to see a fool like me. I'm trying. I've been trying. But trying doesn't matter. That's the bullshit your brain thinks matters, the bullshit other people tell you matters. It's all luck. It's only ever been luck. It was luck that put you here. It is bad luck that will take it away. Reduce all your dreams into a slip and slide of broken glass. And you'll bleed out that beautiful blood everywhere. 

Enjoy the stining pain. As someone comes to try and sanitize it. Relish it. Enjoy it. Enjoy the stinging fire that burns through you. I can't drink alcohol but at least I can disinfect myself with it. I'm not going to do a stupid thing like that. In the end I'll wish. I'll bitch and I'll moan. I'll take stock of the bruises. I'll find the parts of my brain that function worse than before. Then I'll try to carry on. Because I can't even bring an end to it. I can't make myself obey. I don't want to be hurt. I want to hurt. I don't want to suffer. I want to suffer. Caught sliding between both of those at the same time. Until something outside my control comes to give me crushing quietus. 