---
title: Day 33
---

Today I wanted to drink. I wanted to shove some dopamine into my brain. I considered self harming by other methods. I considered seeing my own blood flow. Milking my adrenal glands for sweet sweet cortisol, mixed with dopamine to numb the pain. Induced fight or flight so that I can feel ready to face that world around me. The world I fail to turn towards me. The world I fail to make my own. 

There is no place for me here. It's so tiring to fight against the natural stasis of the world. The world demands me outside of it. I have to justify myself in it. One slip up, one mistake will eat me whole. I am the sum of my errors. They are what have led me to where I am. Going nowhere. Worth nothing. Even failing to live in a waiting room. Bleeing all over the magazines. A papercut that won't close up. I'll not get to see the doctor like this. I'm in no state to. 

Who would want to deal with hysterics like that. At least if I were a terrible person then I wouldn't be delusional. I claim the mantle of terribleness because it lets me believe I'm something. It's better to be a villain than nothing. In reality I am nothing. I will go to nothing. I am made from nothing. There's no more. Nowhere. Anymore. Take a sack of organs fill them with blood, plasma. Give nerves to constantly light up lightening pain. All day every day. Joints creeky bones that don't fit with the muscle around them. Wet and hot. 

I don't want to move. To will those ill fitting joints into locomotion. The ankle that aches every night. The brain that burns with worry. An old machine surrounded by old models. My old quirks being my undoing. I miss the era of use and age into obsolescence. Break my bones. Compact me. And send me away. All that I am is nothing. The sum of my biology worth less than the atoms bound to it. 