---
title: Day 12
---

Today I wanted to drink again. It was because of regular stress. My default response to stress is alcohol, go figure, I am sick. It’s such an engrained habit, a get out of jail free card where I don’t need to engage with my own emotions. It’s comforting and sweet as it slowly kills me. I wish that I just didn’t have to feel stressed. I wish that my place in the world felt remotely stable. It feels like everything is just on the verge of falling apart because I made some lapse. Of course, alcohol makes such lapses more likely but I don’t feel the impact that often because ultimately, it’s not my fault. I’m not that close to things falling apart, I know that but different parts of my brain are at war over the issue and the winning side is the one that tells me that everything is on the verge of coming apart. Maybe it is all falling apart. I feel like I’m stuck in a maelstrom and everything is just constantly churning and I see my dreams float up and down and away from me. Just beyond my reach. 

I want to just feel stable. I want to feel like it’s okay for me to exist, and like I’m going to be okay. That’s all I want, that’s all I’ve ever wanted. I’ve had to fight and lose and fight and lose so often. I’m so entitled that even when I win it’s not enough because the more you win the less you appreciate the victories. The more the defeats sting and it’s worse when it could have easily been so much different. It hurts so much. I just want to burn it away. Imagine if I could replace this despair right now. If I could replace it with the bottle. It’s nearly two in the morning. It’s too late. That’s the only barrier between me and a relapse the fact that I can’t get alcohol easily right now. At this current moment. That’s why I won’t drink. 
