---
title: Day 68
---

Digging. Digging so much my back hurts. This isn't even hard work. It's lazy effeminate and white collar. Retaining information. Reciting it like I've been possessed. Help I've let myself be possessed by a textbook. What a dull case of possession. Learning the right incantations to convince the examiner to look at me favourably. To let my dreams exist and subsist. My dreams. I could just kill the ego driving me this way. Strangle it. Kill myself in a metaphor, and leave myself a shell for someone else. 

I can't wait for this to be over. I want to stretch out a long summer. Complete my degree without ever seeing a grade sheet. The C can hit me with graduation. Every C I get is just going to get in the way, another reason to hurt. To doubt myself. To worry. To make every single thing count so much more than it ever should. To make it something I whisper to myself in bed. Not dull anymore, just pathetic. 

I don't know what to do. I don't know what is going to happen. I don't know how to be okay with an uncharted reality. Even though I haven't known my future in a long time. The only certainty I've ever found was at the bottom of a bottle. The cigarette butt burrowed into my arm. The red spots. The certain pain. The certain truth found in pain. Reality is not a place of comfort of honour. The only truth is pain. The only certainty is failure. The only comfort that exists in the world is that moment when the hammer is raised up, and before it comes back down. Breaking vertebrae into dust. 