---
title: Meal and a Drink
---

Today I wanted to drink because I was having a nice meal and I wanted something to drink with it, because the very act of consuming nourishment has become inexorably linked with imbibing alcohol. Food for the soul, at the cost of the body. Like any addiction it worms its way into your habits, into necessary actions. It becomes a prerequisite until you can’t even think to do those activities without it. Absent mindedly holding the drink menu and dropping it like an orphan source of radiation. As if you’re holding a bomb that could blow your life apart. That’s how it starts, just a beer with a meal, then two then three. Then you drink before a meal, and after, and at any time of the day, holding to whatever arbitrary rules you have. No spirits with a meal, no alcohol before noon, all ways of lawyering away your own alcoholism. You could never be an alcoholic; it’s just called being cultured. It’s just a wine pairing with some good meat; it helps bring out the flavour. As you pickle your own organs day after day imbibing the good stuff. A flambeed dessert tastes so good, why wouldn’t a human body soaked in alcohol for years taste any different. A richer flavour of bleeding wounds. In France they have a dish, a whole baby bird, drowned in alcohol and cooked. It’s customarily eaten under a tablecloth to shield yourself from God’s judgement as you eat something unholy. I am the baby bird drowning, I am the patron eating, I am God’s eyes, I am a trinity eating my own soul, damning myself to hell, dissolving my consciousness into sweet nothing. It’s so cultured, so new and futuristic, it’s so delicious.  As glug after glug of fine wine goes into me, I will drown soon. Unless I stop pouring. That is why I won’t drink. 
