---
title: Day 34
---

Today I didn't think about drinking. At least not until the end. I have to get onto the next thing. The next thing after that. I've hated things that stay still. I've hated having to be still. The trouble with memory is that you don't need to do things over and over again. It loses it's lustre in the contours of your brain. In those ridges reverberating in the current. Repeated over and over, switching on and off. The smell of the place. The feeling of a place. The park you used to go to as a kid still looks the same. Even after all those years. 

I remember hearing once. Places don't remember you. Places cannot remember you. There's nothing there which is capable of remembering you. Walking past those places you can remember it so torturously well. Like eyou could go back there now. You could do it all again. Wipe away the pain and the suffering. Do it all again. 

It's hard to move onto the next thing, and the thing after that, because you're so surrounded by the same memories. Stuck in a miasma of memorialized pain. Crystaline. Hard to move. Calcified and stuck. The weight of every mistake, every misstep pressing down on you. The memory of it all. It hurts to breathe. 

The only way is escape. Going somewhere else. Catching on the next piece of timber. Till you burn through it. I can't wait to be able to go somewhere new again. To get out of this city of smog. So full of so many memories. So full of so much family who I can't even bear to speak to. So full of repeated miserable mistakes. I want to go somewhere new. Become a different kind of animal. Adapt to a new habitat. Maybe then I can be redeemed. 