---
title: Day 9
---

Today I wanted to drink because I saw a picture of someone else drinking champagne. I missed the taste simple as that. Even spending a morning reading about the specific neurotransmitters that have been disrupted by my chronic alcoholism. It’s remarkable that I can know precise mechanism responsible for ruining my sleep schedule, inducing a diminished mental state, and still crave it because of something so simple as a taste. Though it's not just a taste though is it. It’s that stolen possibility, that enjoyment merely from drinking it. The positive associations. It comes together. But I am mostly a stupid fool who just loves the taste of poison. Don’t we all love the taste of poison, shovelling greasy slop in our mouths day in day out. Was it our fault our bodies were made like this. It’s our fault we can’t control ourselves and you’re just a kid if you try and blame some amorphous society for your own lack of control. 

Everyone is tempted at all times, but being a better person, demanding self-control of yourself, that makes you not morally good, you avoid moral failure. Self-control is necessary but not sufficient to be a good person. You can’t expect any handclaps for avoiding moral failure. Though at this point I find myself getting dangerously close to the navel gazing solipsism that is metaethics. Either way, a compelled choice, a choice you could not make is completely devoid of morality and can’t be factored into the person. You’re not responsible for not doing a bad thing which was impossible. Becoming a good person is to recognize the possibility that you could do harm and choosing not to do it, or conversely trying to help. Either way, I’m not drinking again today. I’m going to avoid that failure, at least for another day.
