---
title: Day 40
---

Today I didn't want to drink. I didn't do a whole lot today except feel like crap physically. My body ached. I didn't go out at all today. I stayed at home, played video games and studied. It was in all a good day. I don't need alcohol to have fun. I think that's the biggest conclusion I have drawn. Tomorrow I'll go out. I have a whole week and obviously I need to study. There's work to do. There's always something to do nowadays.

Which is also a good thing. Life with something to do is life worth living. Life of nothing is nothing much more than a dark ooze that sticks to you. Going to bed and letting the nothing consume you. You are nothing, you will return to nothing, nothing is all there is. Of course this is functionally and literally true, but the art of life is learning to ignore that. TO fill your mind with things to do. Keep your body moving, your blood pumping, your brain pinging.

Though if there's anything to know it's that the brain will keep on firing away no matter what you do. Adjusting itself to the nothing in which it is immersed. The amount I hear this and believe this isn't really commenserate to the amount I don't feel it. I know that my greatest problem is myself. THat my brain fails to adjust to the world around it. Stubbornly digging its heels in. Letting me suffer and burn and fry. A machine that can't adjust to new functionality. Though that's more a matter of speed, the dozens of adjustments made to put me where I am went unnoticed. Death of a thousand cuts, to my old self, to my old life. To the old world, that I knew, that died before I could ever notice.