---
title: Day 27
---

Today I didn’t really want to drink. It’s gotten easier to not want to drink. I think it’s become closer to my default state of mind. I’m still dealing with the aftereffects. Sleep is generally easier at this point. That’s not to say it’s wholly without difficulties but, it’s certainly easier to fall asleep without needing booze or painkillers. I am sadder, though I don’t think that’s a brain meat issue, it’s more that I had a psychological crutch. When you wear gloves to deal with the cold, and you take them off, don’t expect to be able to play in the snow like you could, or at least not without it hurting. 

I’d imagine that as time goes by, I might be able to get better. That was the main thing that drove me to drink. People outside in winter wrap up warm. When you can’t make the inside of your head warm, you’re going to find some way of making it warm. Be it sex, drugs or rock and roll. I don’t want the inside of my mind to be cold. Someday it might become warmer. I’m not sure when winter will end. It feels like it’s been going on a long time. 
When I was a kid obviously, I wasn’t drinking. I started when I was 17, but it feels like there’s always been snow somewhere, punctuated by warmer days, but never a sustained season of warmth. I wonder if some people just live in more northerly climates. It certainly feels like I find some way to be cold even when the sun is out. Like the inside of a freezer is nostalgic and comforting. I’m not ready to leave its embrace. Not ready to go out into the world out there, be born into it again. 

I could choose to be less unhappy. Hang out with friends. Though in the UK that goes hand in hand with drinking and relapse. As important as my vow is, I’m unsure that it could stand up to such a sustained attack. I’ve lived in the kind of winter for so long that makes you question what summer would look like. What it would feel like to feel the sun on your back. To see green everywhere. Feel the pollen in your nose irritating it. Making your eyes hurt. Nothing like that up here. Comforting snow as far as the eye can see, soft enough to lay your head on, and freeze you to death. 
