---
title: Day 31
---

Today I wanted to drink. I was watching a movie and I saw someone else drinking whiskey. Whiskey is a particular drink of mine. It could probably qualify as my favorite in retrospect. That and beer. It was a part of my image. To be the kind of girl who drank manly drinks. I'm not sure what was the purpose. The natural thing would be to distance myself as much as possible from masculinity but I deliberately didn't do that. 

I wonder why that was. What follows will be me speculating on the cause, any number of causes could be true, or false, weighed in different ways. Did I look down on femininity? An inherited aspect of my painful birth into womanhood. Did I want to maintain a connection to masculinity? To try and maintain continuity in my own head with the person I used to be. Did I see masculinity as more real? The pain as something more true than anything else. Did I just enjoy the taste? Or was that enjoyment just a function of drinking it enough to make anything else taste wrong. 

If you put an animal in a certain kind of water for enough time it'll evolve into the kind of animal that can only enjoy that swamp. I do still find female drinks tasty though. I feel guilty for drinking them specifically. Like I've done something wrong to myself, debasing myself in some kind of femininity. It could be something simpler. It could be judgement towards those who demand their life varnished, who wish to have things filtered. I don't want to be the kind of person who takes the sugar with the medicine. 

I pride myself in my refusal of the saccharine sacrement. Pain is reality and fill it up with pain. Don't give me any of that skim milk, insulated, all natural bullshit. That's why I hate mixed drinks. They're a representation of the kind of person I have. Someone with the arrogance to believe that the world isn't pain. That the world shouldn't be pain. I know what the world is like. I had the part of me that could believe in a just world, in a soft world beaten out of me. It's something that I can never get back. Gone. Like broken glass. 