---
title: Day 52
---

Today I didn't really feel like drinking at all. To be honest I didn't feel like doing much. I did the bare minimum of studying. I should have done more. I could have done so much more. I've been nursing a headache. Been nursing exhaustion. Been nursing myself. Trying to rest and feeling guilty for it. I don't like this body. These needs it has. I hate the short hours in the day. I miss booze now when I think about it. The way it played the role so completely in making it so I could sip from one day to the next. Burn away the pain, and the dread. Seperate me and my body. I can go somewhere else. Somewhere nothing hurts.

It does hurt. It always hurts so much. My body is always in low level pain. Circuits broken and burned out. Fuses burnt into nothing. Into nothing would mean that it didn't hurt. No it still hurts. It always hurts. It's always hurting somewhere. My back, my head. I've always felt so stupid for it. It's true I don't live healthily. I never have. That's not true. As a kid I was eating rabbit food, protein that had been boiled into togue but protein rich meals. My parents cared enough to give me brown rice and seeded bread. Only the best health foods. Yet I hurt back then.

I complained of a headache once. I must have been six at the time. And all I was given, was a water bottle. Silly me, dehydrated. I've always felt like that. My pain is normal because if it weren't, then why was no-one ever concerned. If it does hurt, then that's my fault and only my fault. When I drink. I can ignore that. I can feel the pain wash out of me. As I am washed from my body. A mind out of time and space. Looking down at a world full of joy and possibility. I want to drink again.