---
title: Day 62
---

Today I only wanted to drink a little bit. This has probably been the most sustained period of me not wanting to drink. It makes me almost feel like retirining the project. Going back to being a normal person. Can I even be a normal person. After all this. I'm still not a normal person. Obstinate. Certified traumatized. Stubborn. Annoying. Boring. Strange. Slovenly. Downright bizarre. Stupid in the right ways and smart in the wrong ways. It's stupid to think that I could be a normal person. Be it in terms of alcohol or otherwise.

I don't think normalcy is somethihng I'm capable of. I can't even be normal about being normal. Nobody who is normal wants to be normal. They just are. I want a normal life. I reify it. I imagine myself. White picket fence. Normal job. Loving partner. Pets. I want the same bullshit. I would probably find a way to be unhappy even if I got what I wanted. That's another manifestation of it. 

I remember being a kid. Wishing I was normal. Wishing that I had friends. Wishing that I was like everyone else. I know the feeling so well. It's another abnormality. To cry and wish yourself into something more human. More personlike. I wished that I was a girl. I became one of them. Not a normal one. A strange halfway house. It's still much better than before. Trying to be a man in every way. Now I just try to be a man unconsciously and have an excuse for falling short. Maybe one day I can be normal like that too. Choose a normal life. Live more normally and eventually year by year it becomes more a part of me. A normal that belongs to me.