---
title: Day 26
---

Today I didn’t want to drink. I played games. Did a little bit of work. I really should study harder. Tomorrow I might take a train somewhere just to have something to do. The day to day struggles so bound up, every effort feeling like another part of an iron routine. I don’t hate it though. The fact I don’t hate it worries me. I’m so very lazy. Neglecting to do extra work. I’m going to fail, but that’s okay. I’m not working towards anything of benefit in particular. I’m in a waiting room. I’ve been in this waiting room my whole adult life. Four walls, same magazines and fluorescent lighting. Sometimes it seemed I was closer to getting out, sometimes not. 

Japan wasn’t the waiting room. I didn’t have enough time to think, and I had enough alcohol in my brain to not have to. Now it feels like I’ve regressed in a way. Back into the waiting room for however long it will take my life to start. I’ve had better and worse times here. At least I enjoy what I do. The magazines aren’t the same exactly. There’s new things to read, new people to see. I still feel like I’m going nowhere. 

Someday the doctor will let me through, and that’s when things will start again. Until then there’s nothing more to do but sit and wait. Look at my phone. Read my books. It’ll all be over someday. It’s not a bad place to be. You can’t fail in a waiting room. These four walls you merely have to occupy them, and live to the other side of the door. It’s soothing, comforting, but all the while you know that you’re getting older and you’re not out there, you’re in here. The measure of your life drifting away with each movement of the clock hand. Taking you further to the day you’ll die. 

Not that I used to worry about that so much. Bottle of booze in hand to chase away those thoughts. I haven’t drunk in the longest I’ve ever not drunk since I started at age 17 now. Maybe I’ll put more time on the other side of that ticking hand. I’m not sure. When you’re number’s up your number’s up, so just try to enjoy whatever you have for the meantime. 
