---
title: Day 43
---

Today has been too much of a day for me to think about drinking. I had pain in my gut, and so i went to hospital as a result of the inevitable appendicitis scare. I wanted to believe it was too. As a child i often played up minor symptoms to avoid school which i hated. I ate toothpaste. I self induced vomiting. I even ran off the school bus twice. I hated school.

My instinct is that my symptoms are the same now as they ever were. Minor things i play up for attention. Nowadays i hate attention seeking behaviour. In myself and others. So now i have a complex about making a fuss and wasting people's time. That's a wider complex too. I see the world in terms of good people and squeaky wheels. It's my way of coping about getting less attention as a kid. Certainly less good attention.

I do hate my sister. The more she uses healthcare the less i want to. Behavior tainted by her. For five years i was an only child and i was reasonably happy. My sister she saw this happy dynamic without her as a threat. She needed to assert herself on the family. In effect she pushed me out of it. She was given training wheels, i was given razor wire and live fire. My dad liked to be violent for fun, to humiliate and exercise power over others. My sister learned the same thing and i was 5 years older taking the worst scratches she could give and never retaliating. I never was able to complain. Especially not to her. She was allowed to complain consequences free and be a squeaky wheel.

So squeak on girl see how far that gets you.
