---
title: Day 15
---

Today I wanted to drink. I smelled the surgical spirit that I use to sterilize my injection sites and it reminded me of the taste of alcohol. Obviously I’m not going to drink surgical spirit, I’m not that desperate. Or at least I haven’t reached that point. I mean obviously they cut it with something so it’s not good to drink. Probably something like that. I’ve had a pretty low mood recently, with its ups and downs. I’ve been studying. I think I’m anxious about my future academic prospects to a degree that’s unhealthy. I don’t have any margin for failure so it feels like any minor mistake is something that threatens my entire future. It does threaten my entire future what am I talking about. If I want to do anything with my life I have to be perfect. If I’m not perfect I’m nothing and it’s going to fall apart.

All of my life is on a knife’s edge but even hard work feels like it won’t save me. I don’t know how to become a winner. I’ve only ever been a loser, a failure. I don’t know how to get out of that. I don’t really believe in myself. I don’t believe in my future. My chances are low. I don’t know why I keep on pushing myself, keep on studying. I’m a gambler. I’ll gamble with years of my life, I can’t stop being a fool, and hoping like a fool. Hoping that someday the gambles piled atop each other don’t collapse in on themselves. I want to steal that possibility steal that hope, believe in the future. In an eternal present that isn’t so crushing. I want to believe my writing is good. I want to believe I’m smart. I feed my ego and it eats me alive. Still I won’t drink. Maybe it’s that ego in the way. I’ve made it two weeks. I’ve heard that two weeks is crucial for addiction studies. I forgot to mention it last entry. Maybe it’ll get even easier from here on out. 
