---
title: Day 14
---

Today I wanted to drink really badly. I went into a room full of booze, I looked at it, I shouted that I wanted to drink. I cried. I didn’t drink. I shouted at myself, my throat hurts. I don’t know why I’m so full of myself. Nothing is wrong, I’m being stupid and I’m going through nothing. There’s nothing wrong so why does it hurt so much. Why am I so depressed. I had a good day yesterday for a lot of it. The end was a mess and it’s like I’ve been living some kind of nightmare since. Nothing bad happened. Nothing bad happened but it hurts. Like everything I wanted and everything I hoped for is impossible. Like struggle is pointless and hope is foolish. 

I think maybe my natural state is to tend towards melancholy, at least when I’m so physically alone. I think I value hugs a great deal. I like being close to people. Being long distance is a uniquely painful reality for someone like me. That’s too melodramatic. I’m being stupid. It just hurts. It hurts to feel an absence in my life like that. Not knowing when it will resolve, when things will get better. What do I really want. I just want to be happy. It’s even worse when I’m happy and then something happens to take away the kinds of things that make me happy. In a way it makes me worse to see that happiness is possible and then have it be denied, and denied, and denied, and denied. Listening to other people be so gleeful, and seeing knowing what I could have won but for reality being different. But for a different flag on my passport photo page. A different gender I was born with. Yet even if I got that maybe I’d want more. Maybe happiness is just fundamentally unattainable to me. That’s why I drank. Why don’t I drink anymore. I don’t know, maybe I’m stubborn. 
