---
title: Day 25
---

Today I didn’t want to drink. I don’t remember wanting to drink at all today. I did get stressed again. Power cuts are surprisingly stressful, when you don’t know the power will be bad. Forced back home. Forced to regress back into an ill-fitting crib. It’s even harder to let go of things you have adjusted to. I’ve adjusted to having wings, to not having to justify every single thing I do. Every embarrassment, every mistake, needs to be itemized and explained. Filling a form with your own missteps, and even if they say nothing, you know that they think less of you for needing to put in the form. Like signing up for welfare, even if you don’t use it. Writing your name right on the dotted line that makes you a good for nothing piece of shit drain on society. 

You’re an embarrassment. Not fit for purpose. Like filling in a return form. Filling out all your defects. Knowing that someone else is seeing that. At least when you’re alone you can forget about it. Burn it away. Leave it as something that you can remember before bed and set it aside. It doesn’t need any further treatment. You don’t need to remember it. It’s something that you can just forget. 

Someone else there to scrutinize you. And then if you do screw up then that becomes something to mention going forward. Some reason to circumscribe your freedom. Can’t trust a machine that acted up. You can see eyes roll when you leave too late on in the day. The more you screw up the more you have to explain. Give that itemized report of all your failures for evaluation. When you screw up someone else is just going to take that screw up and compare it to themselves. You’ll become an example to them. 
