---
title: Day 10
---

Today I wanted to drink because someone was posting cringey bullshit on the internet and I wasn’t sure if it was a bit or sincere and I didn’t want to get caught with my hand in the cookie jar. Social dynamics make sense as a reason to drink. I’ve become better at them. When I was a kid, I was more oblivious. Since changing my hormones, it feels like it’s easier for me to understand, like the barrier between me and other people has come down. It’s not perfect but it’s much better now. When I was a kid, it was a mess. I was so depressed, so shy, but still willing to stand up to people even when it was stupid and then freeze when they hit me. I don’t know what changed. Perhaps it was getting better at compartmentalization. I have an uncanny ability to turn a blind eye to what really hurts for the time being. To focus on the mission. To put all those worries that come with every social interaction and put them in a box. Traditionally I would burn the box with alcohol and forget those feelings. Instead of having to deal with them. 

I’m not sure what changed about me. I know something that was core to me did. I went from being unable to relate to other people, to being able to do that, to understand them. I still get anxious that there’s miscommunication but in an arrogant way I don’t assume there’s any difference between what I feel and what everyone else does. People are more comprehensible after years of estrogen. Maybe it is a potent drug after all. Either way I do feel better about myself now. More confident and capable. At least in social situations. Either way I want to keep those parts of my brain in good shape. So I suppose that’s reason enough for today to not drink. 
