---
title: Day 13
---

Today I didn’t want to drink. Day 13 should be a pretty unlucky day but luckily, I have escaped the desire to drink another day. I suppose its going to get easier. I feel healthier, I find it easier to see things. I feel a little healthier. A little happier sometimes. My sleep is starting to get a little better but it’s still early days. I only started writing this blog a few days after I started to stop drinking. I stopped on the 3rd of January after saying that I was going to do dry January for all the good that did. Though in the end if I keep this up I’m going to do essentially a dry January. It’ll be the longest I’ve ever been without a drink.

Today was all in all a good day. I played games, I studied, I was productive. The benefit of not drinking is that I don’t have access to a time warp where I can just open a bottle and wake up later in the day. I think I feel happier in general too. Maybe I’m just prone to bad mood swings. I suppose that would explain my turn to alcohol in the first place. I’m looking forward to a new school term. I saw a few people around the place over the past few days and they waved at me. They looked happy to see me. It’s like I was worth something to them. I guess I’m a vampire I suck the energy out of other people. I’m always going to be like that. 
Alcohol lets me distract myself from the plusses and minuses from the way that other people look at me. From worrying about stealing the energy from everyone around me. 

It’s reassuring, like a good friend hyping me up to everyone else. That’s why it’s so natural drink. But because I’m healthier and able to do more stuff, I think that alcohol might make me a better person to be around, maybe it’ll make it worth it. I guess that’s why I won’t drink today. 
