---
title: Day 53
---

Today I wanted to drink. I wanted to. I've found myself in a strange state of mind lately. Happy and exhausted. Stressed and elated. Like everything is passing through me. I'm not doing what I need to. Not studying. Not doing anything productive these past couple of days. Just letting the day pass me like I've been shot through some kind of canon. I'm not even worried about it anymore.

I just feel failure already. Feel doomed to it and condemned. No matter what I do it is going to be destroyed. Nothing will be saved. Not a single thing will survive. It's disassociation. That feels like too long a word. It's not anything like that. It's simple. It just makes the days feel too short as I can't muster the courage to feel anything. I don't feel like doing a single thing today. Just eating. Yet somehow the time has already passed. I feel tired. I slept well today but I still feel tired. I feel so tired. So tired that none of it feels like mattering. I can't will myself to do anything. Can't read cases.

My brain is impotent, the only thing it'll fuck up is me. Is guarantee my chances. The dice was already rigged from the start. You might think I'm crying while saying this. But I'm not. I've made peace. I've made peace. I will merely subsist. None of it matters anymore. I'm so tired. I need to study but there's not even that terror. That feeling of failure. There's no point screaming for the executioner to stop when the bullet has left the barrel. Death is already here, at the speed of sound. So get with the program. Do not waste your last breaths screaming.