---
title: Day 46
---

Today I didn't really want to drink. I've been more out of it than usual. I'm not even that sick. The pain is still there. It still burns. I don't have an appetite. I have so many maladies and none of them are written into my CT scan results. None of them are in my bloods. My urine. No abnormalities detected. They never scanned the right place. Three pounds. 20% of caloric energy draw. Broken. Broken. All broken and busted. Nothing in it of any value.

That's the real reason I hurt. The real reason I took myself to hospital. I just invented it. The things wrong with my brain. I feel it in so many places in so much pain. Overloaded. Oversaturated. Overbearing. Overwhelming. Over my head. Down, down, down. Through the white and grey matter. Down the brainstem. Down through my fingers and my body. Then back up. Suck up your surroundings suck up all the pain. It might be the last you ever see. 

Take it all in. Every last sensation. One last breath before the plunge. There's nothing else I'm afraid. All the pain you knew. The only proof of it in malign corners of neurons. The tree remembers, the axe forgets. You are the only person who carries any recollection. You were the only person who ever remembered, because you made it all up. All your pain. 

Isn't it nice. To feel like a victim. To write for yourself a reason for your pain. Something that might not show up in a CT scan, or an ultrasound, or a blood test. You can put it on a questionare for some psychiatrist. Splayed out on paper pages like a gravure model. This is the measure of my mental illness. You can come to know it in all of its glory. Every curve and bulge of it. This is what I am. This is the machine I am. I turn the pain and suffering in my surroundings. The stimuli. Simulated, at least I had all of this come from somewhere. Something real. No it was only ever in my own head. Just a picture of a person who broke themselves without anything. Good job for being such an interesting case study.