---
title: Day 60
---

Today I don't remember wanting to drink. I wanted to smoke a little bit. For a moment then it passed out of my mind. It took wearing my jacket. Having my cigarettes. Having my lighter. Walking past the place I usually smoke. All of that to induce an urge so weak that it passed in and out of my mind in the space of a few seconds. Altogether different from drinking. I was an addict. I was addicted to drinking. To some degree I still am. As much as I'd like to play coy. To hide myself. Obfuscate away my failure. It was never real, if it was real then it's in the past now. The wound still aches. The pain only a bandage peel away.

I'm stressed. I'm overwhelmed. I'm scared. Consequential action feels dangerous because taking action feels like taking a step towards inevitable defeat. I don't hate doing my work. I don't hate the uncertainty of my results. I relish it. The moment before opportunity and potential crystalizes into pain. For a moment I could think of myself as someone who had it. Someone capable and effective. Someone worthy. Then the hammer comes down. It hits my neck. My spine. It breaks me. It breaks that ambition of me. I know it's going to happen. I know it's coming back around. I can hear it as it falls onto me. Like a snowflake melts away my life, my dreams, my hopes and my hardwork. It wasn't anything to look at. Who would bother. To examine the shape for a second. Before it passes into nothing. Devoid of meaning. Devoid of life. Devoid of anything to prove the work that was done. The life that was once lived.