---
title: Day 44
---

Today I wanted to drink. I got discharged from hospital and then fell asleep. Long and deep. The hospital is a strange place. It is a world unto itself. It's full of its own spheres and divisions. There's a membrane between it and the world at large. Sucked into a great drain, swirling around, not able to escape the current. But not needing to, not wanting to. You and the seat you're in. The bed you're in. The needles put into you. The hands that touch you.

Me calling it a world unto its own makes it seem unnatural. There's something unnatural about it. It is a bureaucratized existence. With overlapping departments directly responsible for you. At the same time there's something so very human about it. I think that's because it's natural for humans to care for each other. To look after each other. To care for each other. To feel someone else's pain in your mirror neurons. 

There was an piece of artwork I saw, I think it was when I was being carted between the ER and the imaging department. It was a glue stick, but instead of the branding I expected from the glue stick. It was the kind of gluestick I used to use when I was in elementary school. The text was different 'Kindness keeps us together.' There were a lot of slogans throughout the corridors all pretty similar to that. When I first saw them there was something sardonic in me. This was all meaningless. 

I was wrong. It wasn't meaningless. Sure I saw displays of callousness. There's something human to that to. People being lazy, confused, arrogant, or downright bizarre. You run the gamut of humanity. At core a hospital is a building  made of hope and care for others. It is somewhere to care for others. People you don't know. You'll never know. There's something very natural to humans to be in that shape. I suppose it's cliche and I find myself hating myself for going along with the same boilerplate feelings a child would tell you.

It feels meaningful to me, as someone who has felt a lack of care. Who has mostly seen the other sides of people. Of exploitation. Enough to make me want to minimize the side of myself that needs to be cared for. To show the soft under belly is to give people directions on where to stab you. That's what trust has meant. Yet when I show my soft underbelly to a doctor there. I flinched. I flinch when everyone touches me, but the way their faces showed care. The way my pain bounced into their brain. There was something natural about that. 

I'm not going to shake my sardonic skin. I"m not going to start trusting people. I'm not sure I can. Something about going up to that place. Up high to that ward, to see the sky. To see the people. To fill that bed. I won't soon forget it either. It will bounce around my brain. It will stick to me. Like glue. 