---
title: Day 30
---

Today I wanted to drink. I wanted to put away my consciousness. Possessing my body driving me to want things, to hope for things to worry for things. If I could believe in something then I could believe that it would be okay, that the world isn't just caving underneath me. Threatening to fall apart. Reduce all my hopes to electrical impulses in an over imaginative brain. Nothing but neurons and pain. All that it ever was. All that it ever could be. 

Belief is comforting. To believe is to think regardless of evidence that something will happen. People do believe a lot of things. They believe the sun will rise tomorrow. They won't die tomorrow, that society will continue to function. That a solar flare won't wipe all life from earth. If you didn't believe that those things weren't going to happen it would be impossible how would you get out of bed. What reasoning would there be to do anything if you couldn't believe that it wasn't all going to be nothing tomorrow. To put those worries out of your mind. 

I do believe in some things. I'm not totally paralyzed. Every action I take however, I believe it's going to lead to something bad. I believe that there's something up there and it's counting every action I take. Seeing the sum total of morality and eating me alive if the scale goes too far to the other side. Every awkward glace will go unpunished someday.

To some degree this is inherently true. Every near miss draws you closer to eventual retribution. It is rare in aviation that you'll see an accident that arises completely out of nothing with no prior near misses. The more you take risks the more likely that God will someday come to collect. I paid the price, rolled the dice, every time I used to drink.