---
title: Day 7
---

Today I wanted to drink because I am alone now. I am so alone, completely and totally. I am no stranger to this same feeling of loneliness. It’s a headbanger from my childhood, refined with new melodies in every subsequent year. Yet it still retains the same bone crunching tune. I am alone. Even when I am with other people who profess their care for me I am alone. Because they don’t care about me how I want to be cared about. They care about a representation of me. I suppose it’s my own fault, my own callousness and fear creating a shell. Nobody thinks of the meat of a crab when they picture the animal. The animal is given shape by the shell, so that’s what we think of. They see me the same way. They see the shell that they forced me to develop. The crab only evolves a shell in response to the harsh conditions it finds in its evolutionary niche. I did the same. Now all I am is that shell. Except for people who get to know me, who see behind it. The person who I was with, the person with me at all times, who could see past the shell. To see what I really am is gone. 

Am I not the shell in a meaningful sense? If I were then I would feel happy to see my mother care for the shell, to polish it, to treat with it as though it were me. At least she would go through the motions even if misguided. I hate this loneliness. I hate that I can’t ever seem to escape it. For the shell is all I can show. When I meet new people I see them in relation to how they could be another person to harm me, another thing I need to defend against. An interloper, someone willing to hate me, finding a reason for it. So I show that pretty little shell, I hope they can end up dazzled by it. Then maybe they’ll leave me alone, maybe they won’t hate me. Alcohol removes the fear, the fear that necessitates the shell. I can shed it for a moment. Even the loneliness gets burned away. There is only the blissful glee. I have held the bottle today. Twice even. Both times I stopped. Both times I ceased. Depositing the brew somewhere far beyond my reach. Though of course there is the ever-beckoning song of the store. I will not drink today. Because I don’t wish to lose that person. Not today. Not ever. That is why I won’t drink. 
