---
title: Day 23
---

Today I wanted to drink. Today has been a stressful day and me being the disgusting venereal disease I am want to drink away minor inconvenience. Life is to some degree pain. We endure the pain because we hope that something will be better. The alcoholic laughs in the face of reality drowning it in a beer haze. I suppose the alcoholic is a great example of the constructed and subjective nature of reality in the first place. It is contingent and composed in the way the sensory inputs we have are interpreted by the veil of neurotransmitters. The more we fuck up our brain, the more reality gets fucked up. It’s not so much that reality gets fucked up but the way but the way you see it becomes different from what it actually is.

Though of course the human brain has no means of experiencing reality in a true and unvarnished sense. It is constantly mediated by our own personal neurochemistry. Our own beliefs, our own desires. Consciousness is a process created by the brain from on and off switches in our brain. The way alcohol works is it messes with those switches. I suppose there does feel like some difference between beliefs and neurochemistry. One is your beliefs controlling your brain, and how you feel, but the other feels more like the reverse. Too depressed to do what you want to. I suppose mental illness is an invocation of the neurochemistry to your detriment, and drugs are to your perceived benefit. 

That’s why mental illness is such a common comorbidity for addiction I suppose. If your own neurochemistry won’t function for you then you can make it function for you. What a valorous way of characterizing being a scared little fool unable to deal with unvarnished reality. Fuck up my brain because I can’t take it anymore. I can’t be a normal person. I can’t just deal with it like everyone else. Brain bashed in over and over. Consciousness dripping through my nose. Don’t need to think, don’t need to feel. Alcohol like sampling suicide. A dive in that inky black pool. Letting it cling to you without needing to commit. Only the brain damage is permanent. 
