---
title: Day 48
---

Today I didn't want to drink. I didn't want to eat either, or smoke, or anything like that. So maybe those parts of the brain are all linked together. The same proteins. The same dna. The same chemical battery. I don't think I understand why people tend to believe that explaining the grounds of biological life makes it less beautiful. Sometimes there is beauty in mystery but only if the initial facade is interesting. Cut beneath the skin and see all the nerves and blood vessels dancing underneath. At an even more basal level it is remarkable that an arrangement of atoms, forming proteins, forming combinations from four letters, could encode instructions to make a person like you. 

The world hurts. It doesn't matter either way. The random rearrangement of atoms. What utility is there in the brain inventing a crown of delusions, for you to wear. Putting the rope in your hands to hang yourself. Ah I do understand it at the same time. It wasn't ever beautiful. It wasn't a question of there being beauty in mystery, rather that the lack of understanding of the brutal random law of probabilities that projected you, half baked and unintended into this world we have to live in. The illusion isn't beautiful it is a necessary substitution of reality for something that is comfortable to live in.

People make it even less comfortable. Reality is harsh. Not for everyone. I feel more unwell, more delusional, by looking at reality. They don't need to confront the pain of others. They can ignore the world, live in their practical delusions. Ignore the fact that it was all random. Ignore that reality was a constillation of random choices. So long as you had the right stars behind you, to avoid the pain. You can believe in the shapes in the sky. Rather than the immersurable nothing that stretches in between.