---
title: Day 24
---

Today I wanted to drink. The urge was weaker than usual. Just a twang of something rattling around in my head. Like a small pebble thrown into a well. Thud. That was the extent of it. I was surprised. I was starring at some whiskey in a jam jar. I could’ve opened it, drunk it, nobody would’ve cared. It wouldn’t have mattered. Except to me. I have a vow to keep after all. Today started badly and improved from there. I came back to my apartment after having to vacate in a hurry, did some studying and played some games. Things are okay in the world. The world looks good enough to not need to be seen through a booze addled brain. 

My addiction is purely procedural. When I see a world that I can’t bear to see then that’s time to make sure that I don’t see it anymore. Burn my eyes open. Close them up. Have me dribble on the floor. I have a brain; it’s ability to control me all gone. That is how it feels when I do drink. No consequences even as the drink mutilates my own brain. Self-inflicted. So I can never look at that world again. Eventually I won’t have to. An all expenses paid trip down, down to where we all go one day. Not all of us shaking and drooling. Not all of us face down in pooled vomit. 

It tried to get me too once. I was so happy with myself not throwing up while I drunk. Then waking up, nostril in pain. Body aching. Blood pumping. Dried vomit caking the side of the futon. I was living in Japan at the time. So, I didn’t have a mattress cover. I didn’t think about the significance of waking up in a pool of vomit. Not at the time. Nowadays it hangs over me. It’s not the first time that I’ve felt like I’m on extra time. Like the normal time my life was supposed to have gone on has long since elapsed. Now is just bonus time. Time to make the best of. That would be true even if I hadn’t come somewhat in the vicinity of my own death. Twice. This is your one ticket, when your number’s up your number’s up. Nothing else to do. No consciousness. The blackness of alcohol and anaesthetic is all that awaits you. So, you might as well have a good time buying popcorn in the foyer, because there’s nothing else out there. Bonus time. Not having to worry about making anything, except enjoying the time you have, till that cloying blackness finds some way of welcoming you back. 
