---
title: Day 47
---

Today I did not want to drink. I smoked instead. I smoked by the canal. I smoked with the ducks nearby. I felt at ease. Smoking is evil. Smoking is toxic. You should not smoke. The moment the smoke hit my lungs I could feel myself relaxing and focussing. I could feel the blood vessels in my head shifting to accomodate the arrival of nicotine in my bloodstream. A wave of comfort passing the blood brain barrier. Chemical engagement that I had not felt in a long time. 

I could get addicted to this. The last time I smoked was December, before than July. I'd only smoke once a week at most. I would never say I've been addicted to it. When you're in a vulnerable time though. That's where the addiction can set in. I suppose I probably shouldn't mix my addictions. If I get addicted to alcohol there's a good chance I have the personality for it, but brains work in different ways. There scariest part was the ease of tension. Like a good massage but at a fraction of a price point.

I looked at the packet. Cigarettes are toxic, get help from your healthcare provider. I don't think people get it really. Cigarettes, booze, anything like this it's a way of coping with situations that you can't cope with otherwise. It's easy when you haven't had it easy. When you can rest easy. When you don't have those memories gnawing away at you. You have margin of error, and don't appreciate the margin you have. How nice for you. To not need anything. You can put cigarettes are toxic, alcohol will kill you on every packet. Raise the taxes. It's not like you'll have need of them anyway.