---
title: Day 69
---

I've relapsed. I've relapsed multiple times. Kid you don't know how much worse things can get. You think there's some lower limit. There's some vacuum out there, and you'll get there and you'll feel numb. It won't matter because nothing can hurt you anymore. And then you find it. Some hope, some unbroken patch of skin. Somewhere in your mind a promised land that still hasn't been burned and busted and you find that last place. And you find it burning away. You could only ever discover it like this. Moments before it was consumed. You'll lose that very last part of yourself. Broken and forced out of tune till you never ever learn to play like you used to. 

You'll be doomed to fight the same battles over and over. Samsara over and over, until you break and burn. Human garbage. Bulging lid, broken pull ring, the last can at the back of a forgotten pantry. There was one part that was still good. Now it's all gone. Nothing more to be said about it. Until the end of time. There's always another reason to let the guilt eat you from inside out. Another thing that you thought you had. I should be happy, idle life of larry, sequestered away not having to think. Nothing to occupy my days. It's corrosive. Listlessness is more corossive to the self than labour. The less you do the more you get accustomed to doing nothing. Like a fish stopping in water, gills no longer able to pass oxygen, you're suffocating and you feel the asphysixiation coming in. The herald of the end, consciousness dissolving into a tingling sensation at the tips of your fingers. You can't move anymore. The idea of moving is unfathomable. You've been broken and chiseled into this non moving piece of meat. Decaying before everyone. 

I don't want this. I never wanted this. I can't escape. It's so everywhere, and any escape I find is so incredibly impossible. Because I'm already in it. I've passed beyond. Just a week of poison to ruin me in ways I didn't know I could be ruined. 