---
title: Movie
taxonomies:
  tags:
    - depression
---

Today I wanted to drink because I watched a movie. It was about a guy who gambled like me, not with chips, not for money, well not directly for money. I gamble with years of my life. He did too. Gambling with his future time and time again, going into the pulpit. Humiliating himself once, all for money. He was bent over and hit with a paddle. He said he would do anything. I would do anything; I’ve been hit with that paddle so many times. Over and over that paddle. Then at the climax of the final act he’s faced with a final humiliation, which he avoids, he’s able to assert himself. In the end of the film, he’s able to accept his life, and find a happy ending that was laid out in front of him. A happy ending I would kill for. A happy ending I don’t get the option of. I want to gamble and not have red ink fill my mind. It’s selfish and childish. I am selfish. I am childish. I’m stupid and that’s why I drink. Burning away the losses. Letting the ink bleed away. I just want a chance to be happy.

Maybe if I was more modest if I found simpler goals. If I wasn’t like this. If I roped. If I roped if I had managed to rope, not that pathetic attempt, the one that was just for attention. Not that one. Maybe then I could have been able to have my gambling pay off.

He’s just a film character. I’m a real person. It was all just an act. Though every day I’ve always been looking. People with friends, with good stories to fill their minds, friends to call on who are close to them. I’ve always been watching, watching other people. I never asked to have a family like this. I never asked to go to a school full of people who hated me.

I just wanted some of their warmth. Sat out in the cold looking at fires. I never asked for my ex. I clung to them because at least another human body at least that’s warmth. At least they’re warm. They can stab me, they can shout at me just give me warmth. I’ve only ever known being hit, when I go for warmth. The two are linked.

Warmth and shouting, loud voices and warmth. Alcohol makes me feel warm too. I’ll always have my belly trailing after me begging for another drink. One shot, two shots, three shots, four shots, some beer, a blood alcohol to entitle me to join other people sitting around their fire. To let them share their warmth with me for a little while. That’s why I wanted to drink. That’s why I won’t drink. To keep the warmth, I have. That’s why I won’t drink.
