---
title: EU Tutorial 3
---

C. Questions 
1.	Consider the three models of market integration outlined in chapter 11, section 2 (p. 336 et seq) of Barnard & Peers or in the lecture handout: host country control/harmonized model/home country control. Imagine that goods are imported from Belgium into Ireland. Such goods will have to comply with the rules of which jurisdiction (viz. rules adopted by the Irish legislator, Belgian legislator or EU legislator) to be lawfully sold in Ireland under each of the three models?

Host country control is typical for WTO rules, and it has benefits in the sense that it allows the home government to maintain maximum control over goods that pass through its borders. It gives them the ability to pursue strategic independence for industries of national importance, like food and energy. However it leads to the double burden on imports where they need to comply with home rules and the rules of the country they are exported to which may make exports less competative than they otherwise would be. The second model is harmonized control where regulations are the same, this confers numerous benefits. The last is the home country control model, where the rules of the origin country for a good applies, so if it is legal to sell in one country it is also legal to sell in every other country. This is the EU internal market model. 

2.	Rank the three models in terms of: (a) how much autonomy they leave to Member States in regulating trade in their own country; (b) how effective they are at removing barriers to trade.

Autonomy
1. Host Country Control - the rules of the country the good is being sold in apply totally with no reservation
2. Harmonized Control - both countries agree on the same rules freely so both laws apply equally. 
3. Home Country Control - functionally the rules of another state apply without the consent of the state the goods are being sold in. 

For autonomy however functionally it's a matter of priorities, for a state that focusses more on exports any model besides the host country model confers more autonomy and gives greater effect to exports and may be preferrable as a result of that. 

Removing barriers

1. Home Country Control - removes one barrier entirely
2. Harmonized - Barriers may remain but ultimately fewer since they are hybridized. 
3. Host Country Control - Double burden on exports. 

3.	It is sometimes said that the home country control model has the potential to lead to a regulatory race to the bottom and that it tends to favour business owners and shareholders to the detriment of workers. Can you see explain why this can be so and can you think of anyway to mitigate some of these risks?

Because all regulations are held equal and a good may be legally sold so long as they reach the minimum of any EU state, states are incentivized to lower their standards in order to attract more businesses within their borders. This also applies to workers rights since cheaper workers with fewer protections are going to enable producers to sell their goods at lower prices. This can be mitigated through harmonization so that the lowest bar is set at the same level. It can also be solved by making labour more competative in the sense that worker's in some countries are better educated and therefore justify higher salaries, outside of merely harmonizing the regulatory regime. 

4.	In Cassis de Dijon, the Court describes the problem faced by traders seeking to sell Cassis de Dijon in Germany as that of an “obstacle resulting from disparities between the laws of the Member States”. In what sense are disparities between the laws of France and Germany an obstacle to the selling of Cassis de Dijon in Germany? Does the Court have a solution to eradicate such obstacles?

Established the principle of mutual recognition where if goods are legal to sell in one MS they are legal to sell in all MS. The court essentially declared that the barriers imposed by Germany should not operate. 

5.	What is meant by the principle of mutual recognition in Cassis de Dijon? Does the decision of the Court in Cassis de Dijon mean that harmonisation has become unnecessary to remove barriers to inter-state trade? Reading the Communication from the Commission on the consequences of the Cassis de Dijon case, in what way has the case affected the Commission’s perception of the need for harmonization?

It means that states should recognize the legality of goods that are legally sold in one MS in all MS. It does not mean that harmonization has no purpose if anything the purpose is more strongly underlined, since harmonization is the only real tool at preventing a regulatory race to the bottom by imposing some basic standards to prevent all regulation being rendered non-operant. 

6.	Consider whether the following Member State rules are allowed under EU law
a)	A 10% tax on all imports of alcoholic beverages from other Member States; the tax collected will fund alcohol rehabilitation programmes.

This is not allowed since it violates Article 28 TFEU where goods are charged for merely crossing a border see the Standard Case in Italy. 

b)	A 20% tax on alcoholic beverages with more than 40% alcohol content

This is allowed as it is internal taxation and does not discriminate between domestic and other EU producers and in effect is legal. See Casis and Article 110 TEU

c)	Member State A requires from all EU producers of spring water to register with A’s National Health Authority in order to place their water into A’s market. A’s Health Authority imposes a charge of 100 Euros for inspecting a sample and authorising the sale of spring water.

This would be legal if it applied domestically as well as to all other MS but without that information this would be in violation of article 28 TFEU and article 110 TEU, and therefore would not legally be able to stand. 
