---
title: Criminal Law Tutorial 4
---


1.	Construct an essay topic around strict liability, choosing something that will allow you to construct a relevant argument in an area that is divisive in this group of offences and which shows your understanding of the area.

Argument: Strict liability offences are unjust.

2.	Conduct initial research to identify appropriate resources (including but also going beyond the set reading). 

3.	Draft some potential arguments (bullet points is fine) that you may pursue.

Conflict with Article 6 of the ECHR explored in R v. G -> Case where it was found that it was not incompatible on the basis of public need, counter argument by pointing towards Salako, and international comparative law, findings of incompatibility Janosevic v Sweden, and while the HoL has found compatibility, that doesn't mean that Strassbourg should or would. Smith v. California also found that prison sentences for obscene books violated the first amendment, therefore there could be other human rights grounds to investigate. Incompabibility with human rights in other juresdictions whether or not it applies in the UK in an authoritative sense demonstrates the unjust nature of strict liability. 

Incomprehensibility arising liability falling on a party with no fault to the point of irrationality. R v. Goldstein, salt leaking from a package, worried it was anthrax by the postal worker and found to be creating a nuisance. A party can be guilty of a crime through no fault of their own and by intervention of circumstances entirely beyond their control. Also the dangerous dogs act cases, where the police broke into someone's home and let their dogs out. Justice should not be arbitrary and fault should lie with someone voluntarily responsible and therefore strict liability lies outside the bounds of natural justice. (Cite Wednesbury for irrationality here). 

Counter arguments: Corporate liability and the ability to impose liability on corporations, many Strict Liability offences are directly to do with corporations. 

4.	Produce a short bibliography (3-5) of the resources you have found and will rely on.

A. Ashworth and J. Horder 'Principles of Criminal Law, specifically Chapter 5.5A on strict liability
B Wooton, Crime and the Criminal Law 1981 argument that Mens Rea has gotten into the wrong place and need to rebut, centring around prevention of social issues and regulatory effect argument. 
A P Simester Fundamentals of Criminal Law: Responsibility, Culpability, and Wrongdoing Chapter 13
K Hawkins Law as a Last Resort for data on strict liability
Salako, Solomon E.. (2006). Strict Criminal Liability: A Violation of the Convention?. The Journal of Criminal Law, 70(6), 531–549.

You will then share and discuss these drafts with your neighbour. You should also be prepared to present your initial plans to the class. 
