---
title: EU Law Tutorial 2
---

1. Which of the following statements do you think are true or false and why:
An Individual Commissioner is meant to represent within the Commission the interests of the Member State of which he or she is a national. 

False. Article 17(3) on the TEU dictates that the EU commission is to be independent and therefore not beholden to the state which they belong to. Equally article 17(5) on the TEU says that the minimum is that the Commission should represent 2/3rds of member states. Therefore there’s no intrinsic link between a commissioner and their Member State, and therefore there is a clear indication of the independence. Equally Article 245 on the TFEU emphasizes that MS are not supposed to intervene on the commission. 

The real centre of power in the European Union is in the Commission: Its exclusive right of legislative initiative means that all policy initiatives derive from it. It has a comparable place within the EU institutional structure to that enjoyed by governments within national constitutional orders.

False. The commission does have exclusive right of initiative for lawmaking They also set the agenda of the Council of Ministers and those powers might seem similar to the role of a national government within a legislature. Though 241 and 225 of the TFEU allow the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament and this is regularly used by the Council of Ministers. Though article 11(4) does give citizens right of initiative and there are some areas where the Commission doesn’t have right of initiative. Although this is qualified by the fact that the priorities of the Commission come from the European Council, of the heads of state and government of the Member States. Therefore, the Commission isn’t truly an executive in that sense as its policy directives come from the European Council. 

It is fair to say that, for the most part, the EU has a bicameral legislature, with one chamber consisting of the Council and the other of the European Parliament.

True. The EU Parliament is the lower house and the Council of Ministers is the upper house. 

The European Council is the name that we use for the Council of the European Union when Prime Ministers and/or Heads of State attend rather than ordinary ministers but it is in truth the same institution endowed with the same powers and any power exercised by the Council could equally be exercised by the European Council.

False. The European Council, that is the ones with Heads of State/Government is a policy setting body with no legislative power, whereas the Council of Ministers is a key part of the legislative process but cannot create policy in itself. 

2. What does the principle of conferral mean and what are the different types of Union competence? What is the nature of EU competence in the field of education, used for promoting student mobility programmes?

Conferral provides the EU with the legal power to actually do anything, on the basis of MS deciding to confer powers to the EU, it is how the EU draws power, from the sovereignty of the MS. In education for student mobility, the program currently in existence is the Erasmus Program, which came into being after Regulation (EU) No 1288/2013. with the legal basis coming from Article 165(4) TFEU, where the EU assumed exclusive competence in this area, where it was previously shared competency. 

3. Which EU institutions are involved in the adoption of EU legislation (under the ordinary legislative procedure) and what role do they play in the legislative process?

Typically, the European Council drafts policy which is then turned into a legislative proposal by the European Commission, where it is then introduced to the Council of Ministers, who can allow the European Parliament to participate and typically do, but the EU Parliament doesn’t need to be consulted and may just give assent with no amendments. The Council of Ministers can either vote unanimously or by Qualified Majority voting where 55% of ministers representing 65% of MS population vote for a measure. The proposal will then be read and ping pong between the EU Parliament and the Committee assuming the affirmative proposal isn’t used. 

4. In what way does a directive differ from a regulation and in what way do directive and regulations both differ from a decision?

A regulation is binding to the Member States, a directive is binding but it isn’t textually binding to a Member State and they are free to pursue the goal of that directive in any way they see fit. 

5. What is the legal basis of Regulation 492/2011? What legislative procedure had to be followed for the adoption of that Regulation? Why is there no “transposition” clause in the Regulation as there is in Article 40 of Directive 2004/38? What is the legal basis of Commission Regulation 330/2010?

The legal basis of Regulation 492/2011 come from articles 45 and 46 on the TFEU which lay out freedom of movement as a core part of the EU. It doesn’t need a transposition clause because it is a regulation rather than a directive, which means that it takes effect through the original law binding a MS to the EU, in the case of the UK when it was a member the ECA 1972. The directives on the other hand are implemented by a MS in their own way and thus require a transposition clause where the MS will transpose the directive into its own legislation in its own way. The regulation 330/2010 gains its authority through the TFEU article 101(3) giving effect to that. 

6. Are Directive 2004/38, Regulation 492/2011 and Regulation 330/2010 legislative or non-legislative acts?

They’re legislative acts? They’re regulations and the only way a regulation comes about is through legislative action within the EU? Right?
