---
title: Contract Law Tutorial 2
---

Hutton v. Warren (1836) 1 M&W 466, 150 ER 517
Implied by custom, harvest of wheat case, where the land was to be sold but the tenant continued to work the land and wished to receive reimbursement for their work. 
 →The Moorcock (1889) 14 PD 64, 37 WR 439 
Officious bystander test, case of a jetty which a ship moored at but was damaged during the low tide. More sophisticated parties are more immune to the officious bystander test.
→Attorney-General of Belize v. Belize Telecom Ltd. [2009] UKPC 10, [2009] 2 All ER 1127 
Complicated financial case about telecoms. The ratio is to do with how a document is to be read 
“[the court] cannot introduce terms to make it fairer or more reasonable. It is concerned only to discover what the instrument means. However, that meaning is not necessarily or always what the authors or parties to the document would have intended. It is the meaning which the instrument would convey to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would reasonably be available to the audience to whom the instrument is addressed.” 
The business necessity and officious bystander tests are all different ways of expressing this reasonability of the instrument ideal. 
Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries Ltd. [1939] 2 KB 206 
Business necessity
Schuler v. Wickman Machine Tools Ltd. [1974] AC 235
Conditions are not conditions even if said so expressly they need to be analysed in light of the facts. Case about the shoe salesman having a condition to make certain calls to people and falls slightly short, held not to be a breach of condition. 
 →Liverpool City Council v Irwin [1977] AC 239, [1976] 2 WLR 562, [1976] 2 All ER 39 
Tenants in a tower who held that the maintenance of common areas was part of the building. Held that there was an implied term that the common areas were to be kept in good condition. 
Evans v Kosmar [2007] EWCA Civ 1003 
Corfu diving case, held there was no implied term. 
→Hongkong Fir Shipping Co Ltd v Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd [1962] 2 QB 26 
Established innominate terms, case about a ship which had a two year contract but was out of action for 5 months, did that violate a warranty or a condition of the contract, therefore it was reasoned that some terms in a contract may be innominate, and the scale of damages depends on the scale of breach. 

4. Legislation 
Sale of Goods Act 1979, ss.10-14 

Questions 

1. What is the difference between a term implied ‘in fact’ and a term implied ‘in law’? 
Terms that are implied in fact are where the facts of the document mean that such a term would be necessary to give business efficacy to the contract a very high bar, on the basis of relationship. There is also the officious bystander, though Belize advises a holistic approach. 
Terms that are implied in law, are more to do with statutes or long running common law and less about the specific contract itself so for example Irwin where a term was implied as a result of common law duties for a landlord. 
2. How do the courts decide whether a term has been incorporated into: (a) a signed contract, and (b) an unsigned contract? 
Belize advises a holistic approach wherein the document is to be analysed for what it would mean to a reasonable person who had access to all the materials and terms are implied from there. 
3. In The Moorcock, did the wharfingers impliedly promise: (a) that the berth was safe; (b) that they had taken reasonable steps to make it safe; or (c) that they had taken reasonable steps to find out whether it was safe? Does the Court imply only the minimum term necessary to give the contract business efficacy? Was that particular term necessary? 
C would have taken reasonable steps to find out it was safe. They do only imply that which is necessary to give efficacy to the business transaction. 
4. In Liverpool City Council v Irwin, why was the Moorcock decision considered inapplicable? 
Irwin was more a question of the relationship between the parties and as a result the term was implied because of that. 
5. What was the nature and content of the implied term found by the House of Lords in Liverpool City Council v Irwin? 
An easement for the tenants over the common areas, and the landlord had a duty to maintain these areas. The obligation wasn’t put onto the tenants themselves because of the nature of the relationship between the parties. 
6. The Plane Advertising Co. Ltd (PA) makes a contract to advertise Prestige Hotels (PH) (a German hotel chain which has begun opening hotels in the UK) by “sky-flying”, i.e. towing a large banner bearing a PH advertisement behind a light aircraft and playing music. The contract provides that, before each flight, PA is to telephone PH and obtain its approval for the route to be followed. The contract is for 3 years from the beginning of 2023, and contains no provision allowing either side to terminate. 
On the morning of 11th November the pilot forgets to telephone (as he had been out late the night before), and begins a flight which, by 11am, takes him low over the centre of Warwick. Unfortunately, the pilot has forgotten that at 11am on 11th November two minutes’ silence is generally observed in the UK, in memory of those who have died in wartime. An open-air church service is being held outside Warwick cathedral, and most people in the city centre have stopped what they are doing and are observing the two minutes’ silence. Public opinion in Warwick is extremely offended by the flight, and PH suffers a serious loss of business in the area in consequence. PH now informs PA that, in the light of what has happened, it regards the contract as ended. 
Please advise PA. 
The principal problem here is how can PH terminate a contract when no part of the contract specifies any mechanism for that to occur. In line with Belize, we would need to examine the term that is being sought to be implied here. Is PH trying to imply that if the advertisement campaign leads to a loss in revenue, then it should be implied that the contract is finished? Is there a warranty? Is a term allowing termination of the contract a business necessity? Would it pass the officious bystander test. Ultimately, I would seek damages for breach of contract since there is no contractual mechanism or implied term to give effect to this action. Though this would be contingent on the standard terms of the trade in line with British Crane Hire Ltd. v. Ipswich Plant Hire Ltd to see if there are standard terms. 
7. Andrew, who has a small road haulage business in Norfolk, makes a contract with Dave, a local farmer, to carry a lorryload of quince from Dave’s farm to an up-market fruit and vegetable market in Paris once a week for the 8 weeks of the UK quince growing season. The contract provides, inter alia 

“The lorry must be at the market in Paris and starting to unload no later than 4am on Monday morning. It is a condition of the contract that the lorry must be at the farm ready to load by 5pm every Sunday, and that the vehicle shall at all times be in a good and roadworthy condition.” 

On the first Sunday, the lorry did not arrive at the farm until 5.15pm because the driver had lost his way. It was nevertheless loaded up and duly departed in what would have been good time to reach the market in time. Between the farm and Dover, however, it broke down, causing it to miss the ferry onto which it had been booked. The driver managed to get onto the next ferry, though, and, by not observing the speed limit on the French motorway, he managed to reach the market in Paris on time. 

On the second Sunday, the lorry was punctual, made the trip to Paris without anything going wrong, and arrived there on time. 

On the third Sunday, however, the lorry had a breakdown on the way to the farm, and arrived at 5.30pm. The driver assured Dave that the trouble had been dealt with, and that he could still catch the ferry and everything would be fine, but Dave sent him away and set off in his own vehicle to Paris. Dave telephoned Andrew on the Monday morning to tell him that the contract was cancelled. 

Please advise Andrew. 
There are multiple breaches at issue here. First and foremost, the issue of loading up at 5pm which was breached twice, on the first and third Sundays, the second is the arrival at Paris, which on the third Sunday appears to have gone wrong, and the final part of the term at issue is the roadworthiness which is at issue on the first and third Sunday. 
Looking at it the third Sunday where there is a breakdown which leads to late arrival at the farm we could apply Kosamar, where the free action of the one party to breach their own contract means that the breach doesn’t apply to the other party. So in essence Dave’s driving the produce to France on the last day is him breaching his own contract and this breach led to ultimate termination. In this sense any subsequent actions for breach can be excluded because it is terminated. 
Equally the timing issue should be held to be an innominate condition wherein the arrival is dependent on the scale of the breach, in line with Hong Kong fir, and the facts in Hong Kong resemble the facts here where the truck is supposed to be roadworthy, and the ship seaworthy but the roadworthiness breach is only contingent on the consequences of the breach for damages. 
In applying Belize, we can look holistically at the reasonable meaning of the words in the contract. Therefore, we can determine and interpret the meaning of the contract through the reasonable interpretation of the language. 
