---
title: Land Tutorial Freehold Covenants
---

In 1990 Austin purchased a house subject to registered title; in 1996 he sold a
small part of his garden to a neighbour, Dicey, and under the transfer Dicey
covenanted:

(i) that he would use the land 'solely for the purposes of a
domestic garden'; and

(ii) that he would 'construct and maintain a fence on his
side of the border of the land being sold'.

In respect of both covenants it was agreed that they were made 'with intent that
they may enure to the benefit of the vendor, his successors and assigns and others
claiming under him to all or any of the adjoining or adjacent land'. However, in
respect of the first covenant, it was further agreed that the covenant would not
enure for the benefit of any owner or subsequent purchaser of Austin's land unless
the benefit of the covenant was expressly assigned.

In 2017 Austin sold half of his remaining land to Bentham and the covenant relating
to 'the purposes of a domestic garden' was expressly assigned. However, in 2018,
when Bentham sold the land to Coke the covenant was not expressly assigned. In
2019 Dicey sold to Eldon the small area of land which he had purchased and
informed Eldon in the strongest terms of the existence of the covenants. Eldon is
now using the land for the storage of scrap-metal and the fence has collapsed.
Advise Coke.

Covenant one is a negative covenant and therefore can be binding. 

Covenant two, tulk, it's a positive covenant so it cannot be enforceable against subsequent owners.

Covenant one, there is intent to pass it, however it is for the benefit of the vender and not necessarily the land itself so there's a question on if it has been annexed to the land to the point it is binding. 

Assuming that it is binding then we can investigate. 

Half land sold on to B. Stop.

A can enforce covenant one and two against D
B can enforce covenant one against D provided that the benefit can be assigned to his land. It was assigned therefore it is enforceable. 

B -> C 

Therefore B switches to C however since the benefit still exists for A then A still can enforce against D and C, though covenant two can only be enforced by A against D.