---
title: Contract Law Tutorial 3
---

Questions

1. What are the purposes for which an exclusion clause might be used in a commercial contract and in a contract with a consumer? 

Any number of reasons, they may be used to give effect to some business need or to prevent liability being given in some case. It's hard to say.

2. Mary runs a music shop for a living. She breeds pedigree dogs as a hobby. She regularly buys six months’ supply of dog food at a time from Gourmet Puppyfood Ltd. The contract of sale provides that (a) the buyer must inform Gourmet Puppyfood of any defects in the product within a week of purchase, and (b) any liability for defective products is limited to the contract price. Mary’s latest batch of dog food turns out to be defective, and most of her dogs become ill and require expensive visits to the veterinarian as a result. 

This is a business to consumer contract so it would be a question for the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to decide, in particular there would be a need to decide if the term at issue was a core term or a non-core term. Additionally the price given would be important. The operative case here would be George Mitchell v. Finney Lock Seeds, which had a similar limitation clause. In that case which was under Unfair Contract Terms Act, it was found that the limitation clause was operative, but had been superceded by subsequent dealings. Therefore it would be important to examine the dealings between M and G for any alterations on the contract before. The other potential issue could be with notice, the operative case here is Interfoto v. Stiletto, so if the term hadn't had proper notice then it would not be operative. This is also affirmed in Section 64 of the CRA 2015. Obviously Section (2) of UCTA does not include here as it is only injury to people, pets are chattels so they are not part of the equation, which is found as Section 65 of the CRA. Section 62 is the most crucial section here for the CRA which stipulates that terms must be fair and this term would have to be evaluated in that context. In applying George Mitchell v. Finney Lock Seeds, it is likely that it would be found for G. Though it would depend on the court's interpretation of S. 62 and Schedule 2 of the CRA. 

3. John, a businessman, requested Travel Ltd., for a booking fee, to obtain a ticket from Overseas Airways for the 10.00 AM flight to New York on 1st May. The airline ticket contains, inter alia, the following clause: 'The airline does not undertake to find a seat on the flight for which a ticket is issued. In the event of a particular flight being overbooked, a place will be found on the next available flight. In no event will the price of the fare be refunded.' John is not allowed to board the flight for which he is booked. In consequence he is unable to attend an important business meeting in New York and claims that he has lost a valuable contract as a result. John has not previously travelled by air and was unaware of the existence of this type of clause, but was anxious to obtain a firm booking. Travel Ltd had assured him that he 'need have no fears on this account'. Advise John, who refused to take the next available flight, and wants his money back and compensation for loss of opportunity to make a valuable contract. [Ignore the effect of the Trade Descriptions Act 1968] 

The case that comes to mind here is City and Westminster v. Mudd, and Curtis v. Chemical cleaning, both cases where oral variation of a contract might be operative, and therefore we could create a contract where there was a firm booking and the action of T was enough to breach the contract entitling J to damages as a result. Though assuming we couldn't create a collateral contract here where the consideration is the commission fee, then the next option would be misrepresentation, under Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 which would entitle J to recover from T the losses for the representation made, unless it could be proved that it was done so innocently which is unlikely. In terms of action against the airline, it was unlikely that J could do so, for one he didn't have a contract with the airline, but even if he did it is a standard term of their contracts, and it was something that he was made aware of, following Interfoto there's no requirement for J to actually be aware of the term at issue. 

4. Smith drove his delivery van into an automatic car park owned by Autopark Ltd. A notice was displayed stating the charges including the words 'all vehicles parked at owners' risk'. The ticket which Smith pulled from the machine in order to release the automatic barrier contained printed conditions. These included the following provisions: 1. Autopark Ltd. will not accept responsibility for any loss sustained by the vehicle, its accessories or contents however caused. 2. No variation of these conditions will bind the garage proprietors unless made in writing and signed by their duly authorised manager. As Smith is looking for a place to park he is told by an employee of Autopark that he may leave his van in one of the spaces reserved for 'contract parkers' but that he must leave his key in the ignition so that his van may be moved to an ordinary parking space when one becomes available. Smith, who is late for a delivery, agrees to do so, but his van has disappeared from Autopark's premises when he returns to collect it. Autopark later discover that the employee who spoke to Smith has left without giving notice and cannot be traced. The van is never recovered. Advise Smith. 

The operative case here is the one about deck chairs which I do not feel like finding the citation for right now. Maybe later before class I can find this. 
