---
title: Public Law Human Rights Tutorial
---

1. Which are the most important constitutional instruments to have influenced the development of modern human rights law?

First, manga carta, though limited in scope, the 1688 English bull of rights, then the US bill of rights which went on from the declaration of independence. 

2. In her Human Rights Quarterly article, Dembour identifies four schools of thought on human rights. Briefly describe these. What kind of human rights scholar do you think you are?

The natural school, which believes that human rights lie in some natural system and these rights are then recognized by states. The protest school, which also believes in human rights being an inherent quality like the natural school, but they believe that rights have to be fought for in order to be attained. The deliberative school which believes that human rights are more a reflection of shared global values than something that lies outside of the system that recognizes them. The discourse school which believes that human rights are something that is talked about but has very little substantive meaning. 

I see myself most at home with the discourse or deliberative school. Human rights only exist insofar as they are respected and followed. There is and always has been disagreement and contingency on what human rights are based on cultures and political systems. Imagine the view of someone who experiences oppression that goes unrecognized or quantified in ways that don’t work for you. In a sense human rights have to be able to be used, and the cleavage between positive and negative liberties and moral philosophy in general are always going to colour human rights ideas. 
The effect of human rights should be evaluated to see their use, and it is through the effect we can examine if human rights law in general is an effective instrument to the end of allowing people to exist as they wish. Human rights are essentially based on economic power, demonstrated by Magna Carta and again the limitation of suffrage rights. Human rights is the process whereby groups who are recognized as having some degree of leverage over a society are provided it, that is where human rights exist in a substantive, and therefore reliable sense. Human rights that are extended to, white, middle class, mostly male people are extended because their economic productivity gives them leverage over wider society. The more economically disenfranchised a group the less reliable their human rights are. In a resource economy you will often see a dictatorship where rights are incredibly limited.

Human rights exist as a fork. With two limbs to it. The first is recognizing power of those with leverage, giving them means to feel protected and therefore wish to use their leverage within that system. The second, is the legitimation of a given state, which is linked to the first prong, but is more universalist. It creates a belief in the broad legitimacy of the state and the way in which it rules which makes people more loyal and willing to participate within the state without the use of coercion. Which does re-enforce the first prong. 

3. What is international law and how does it apply in the UK legal system?

Well international law originally didn’t exist but for extra territoriality which his allowing another separate legal system to have effect in other states so as to protect foreign nationals living in another country. International law was contingent on state law. 

In the UK the European Convention on Human Rights is incorporated through the Human Rights Act, and it was used in Ex Parte Smith, and Goodwin to give rights specifically to LGBT people, so it has seen functional use. 

4. Compare the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. What are the major differences?

UDR is much more brief and much more universal, the ECHR writes in direct exceptions which mean that the ECHR will be more enforceable within states as the rights conferred allow for greater exceptions for state action which makes it a more preferrable instrument for a state to use. The UDR confers similar rights with fewer qualifications and is therefore less preferable for a state to rely on. Though the lack of qualifications does also mean that the state can argue that qualifications are necessary to give effect to other articles in the UDR, whereas the ECHR is much more reliable on the text of the act itself. 
