---
title: Contract Law Tutorial
---

1. In what circumstances will a party be held to have "affirmed" a contract? To what extent is a party's election to terminate or to affirm constrained by considerations such as the reasonableness of his decision or conduct? Is it possible clearly to distinguish affirmation from promissory estoppel? 

2. In March Eric, an electrician, agreed to rewire Basil's seaside hotel for £2500. The work was to be completed for the start of the holiday season at the end of April. 
At the beginning of April, Eric had still not started the job. When Basil rang Eric's office, he was told that Eric was out on a similar job rewiring Polly's hotel. Eric had taken on this job after making the contract with Basil. Basil correctly realised that Eric could not complete both jobs by the end of April, and accordingly told Eric that the deal was off, hiring George to do the work instead for £2750. Eric had been aware of the difficulty in taking both jobs, and took on Polly's fully intending to delay that job, if necessary, in order to complete the work for Basil, which was more profitable. In fact Erid did suspend work at Polly's hotel, and rewired Basil's hotel while Basil was away on holiday. Basil's caretaker, unaware of the circumstances, and without any authority to do so, allowed Eric in to do the work and refused to admit George. Basil has now received a £2500 bill from Eric and a £2750 bill from George. 
Advise Basil. 

3. Joshua owns a valuable painting by Alma-Tadema. It is in need of restoration. Accordingly, Joshua takes the painting to Katie. They enter into a 
contract whereby Katie will restore the painting in exchange for payment of £2,500 and she will retain possession of the painting until the restoration is complete. Katie has unorthodox restoration methods, believing that the orthodox methods are simply not sufficient to restore a painting properly. She is also rather short of business. After Joshua has left the painting with Katie, he is contacted by Leah who wishes to purchase the painting. Leah offers to pay twice the market value of the painting, subject to its immediate delivery in an unrestored state. Katie refuses to return the painting to Joshua without restoring it. 

Can Joshua sell the painting to Leah on her terms? 
