---
title: Contract Law Tutorial 1 Term 2
---

3. Cases 

Heilbut, Symons & Co v. Buckleton 1913 AC 30, 82 LJKB 245, 107 LT 769 
The rubber company case. Where is a representation and where is a term. There are four different elements that may help distinguish between the two. First when the statement at issue is made the interval of time between the statement and the contract if short, more likely to be a term, if long less likely, next the importance attached to it by both parties, then the balance of knowledge, and the writing of it into the contract.

Esso Petroleum Co. Ltd. v. Mardon 1976 2 WLR 583, 1976 2 All ER 5 
Petrol station case where Esso made a representation of how much they expected the station to bring in when in effect it was much lower. Held that it was a warranty because of the balance of knowledge between the parties and not mere statement of opinion. 

Oscar Chess Ltd. v. Williams 1957 1 WLR 370, 1957 1 All ER 325 
The case of the car where the seller was selling it to a dealer, said it was a 1948 model based on the log book, the dealer bought, subsequently found out it was a 1939 model, sued but found not a warranty since the balance of knowledge was in the buyers favour as a car dealer.

Harlingdon & Leinster Enterprises Ltd. v. Christopher Hull Fine Art Ltd. 1990 3 WLR 13, 1990 1 All ER 737 
Art case about buying paintings, held that a description of a painting was not a term of the contract because the buyer sought his own independent experts and only bought after. 

Dick Bentley Productions Ltd. & anor v. Harold Smith (Motors) Ltd 1965 1 WLR 623, 1965 2 All ER 65 
Car case about a speedometer, held that the condition of the vehicle was a term because of the balance of knowledge in favour of the seller. 

Harling v. Eddy 1951 2 KB 739, 1951 2 All ER 212 
TB cow case where it was found that a cow being sold but described as healthy actually had TB, found that it was a condition because of the specific wording.

Interfoto Picture Library Ltd. v. Stiletto Visual Programmes Ltd. 1989 QB 433 
Photo holding fee case, held that where a term is particularly unusual or onerous there must be attempts made objectively to make the offeree aware by the offeror of such onerous terms. 

British Crane Hire Ltd. v. Ipswich Plant Hire Ltd. 1975 QB 303 
Crane sinking case, term found not to be onerous on the basis that both parties were in the same industry and therefore knew the standard dealing terms between both of them.

Investors Compensation Scheme v. West Bromwich Building Society 1998 1 WLR 896 
About investors and a term at issue. Really complicated case, needs more elaboration.

Chartbrook Ltd. v. Persimmon Homes Ltd. 2009 UKHL 38 

Questions 

1. What are the principles by which a court classifies statements made in a contractual context as “terms” (which are part of the contract) or as pre-contractual “representations” (which are not part of the contract)? 

Arising from Heilburt Symons v. Buckleton there are four elements used by the courts in distinguishing between a term and an opinion or representation. These are firstly the timing, if a statement is made very close to the making of a contract it is more likely to be held as a term, and if longer less likely, next is writing, if the statement is written into the contract then it is more likely to be seen as a term, next is importance, the importance of the statement to each party, and the last one relates to the balance of knowledge, if one party is in a position to know more or presents himself as such then it is more likely to be a term, see the car cases and esso on this. 


2. Why does the categorisation of a statement as either a term of the contract or a mere representation matter? 

The remedies are different. Misrepresentation in the past through common law required either fraudulent misrepresentation which was hard to prove but entitled one to damages, or innocent which only entitled recission and therefore gave little to rectify losses taken in detrimental reliance. Statutory misrepresentation through Section 2(1) and 2(2) makes it easier through the reversal of the burden of proof in misrepresentation. However breach of contract entitles the party to cause of action for breach right away. 

3. In Heilbut, Symons & Co v. Buckleton, what did the respondent want to know when he telephoned? On what matter or matters was he seeking assurance? Did he make it clear to Johnston that it was of importance to him to know whether it was a “rubber” company? 

The rubbery ness of the company was immaterial Buckleton wanted to know if it was a good company and rubber company was proxy for this. He was seeking assurance that it was a company worth his money. 

4. In Heilbut, Symons & Co v. Buckleton, was Johnston negligent in describing the company as a “rubber company” (assuming this was a misdescription)? Would negligence in such circumstances afford a remedy today? 

They said ‘we’re bringing it out,’ in response to it being a good company. It would be negligent misrepresentation and the remedy would be simple Section 2(1) of the misrepresentation act 1967, cut and dry. 

5. A racehorse, Scattercash, is to be sold at auction without a warranty. Al alone has received a private assurance as to Scattercash’s fitness from the owner. When the bidding reaches £10,000, all the bidders except Al and Ben fall out. Al would fall out too, if he had not received the warranty. He continues to bid up to £14,000. Ben bids £14,500 and the horse is knocked down to him. He then learns the truth. Is the contract binding? 

I don’t see anything legally actionable here, we have an offer and acceptance, Ben was free to investigate the horse himself, and I see no barrier to Ben receiving the same information as Al. I do not understand what the legal problem here is. There is no term at issue, he wanted to buy a horse and in fact bought a horse. I suppose Al’s conduct could have induced Ben to spend more money than he intended to on the basis of representation he was not privy to. Al also might not have had a warranty in the first place, and there was no contract so how can there be a warranty between Al and the seller. 

6. Brandon Enterprises Ltd wishes to hire a car on a yearly basis for the purposes of its business. Its manager, Charles, goes to the Value Garage to make enquiries. He signs a standard form agreement for the hire of a car at £500 per month and pays three months’ rental in advance. The agreement contains the following clause: 

“All conditions, warranties or terms relating to the quality or fitness of the vehicle, whether express or implied, are hereby excluded. Vehicles are taken with all faults”. 

Before he signed the agreement, Charles raised this exclusion clause with George, the garage manager, but the latter said: “Oh don’t take any notice of that, it’s only there to satisfy our insurers. We wouldn’t dream of enforcing it against a customer who played fair with us”. Soon after Brandon Enterprises Ltd took the car it began to develop serious faults and became unroadworthy. 

Advise Brandon Enterprises Ltd. 

I would claim uncertainty on the part of the collateral contract offered by the garage manager to C. C would likely try to argue in line with City and Westminster v. Mudd, and Curtis v. Chemical cleaning that the signed contract wouldn’t stand like in L’strange v. Grouchub, because it had been superseded by a collateral contract that was offered that substituted the term at issue with one that was more lenient. However ‘wouldn’t dream of enforcing it against a customer who played fair,’ this is not a claim that is certain enough to incorporate into a contract. What does playing fair genuinely mean? Any customer can play fair or unfair, it is too subjective of a term to appeal to fairness. Make an argument in line with May and Butcher v. R. There aren’t consideration issues with the collateral contract as in Mudd, it was found the consideration was entering into the subsequent contract. There might be issues with the uncertainty argument namely that courts seek to give effect to contracts where possible, but there is a valid contract here so we might be able to be okay with that. Equally, if this alteration is too uncertain of a term then that means that the contract either fails, though in line with Hillias and Arcos Lord Wright LJ 'verba ita sunt intelligenda ut res magis valeat quam pereat,' words are to be construed so as not to throw out the whole contract. Therefore we could say that the term at issue for being uncertain is severed away in line with Nicolene v. Simmonds. 

There could be an argument that not enforcing a term in the contract, in this case and exclusion clause could be a violation of the term of good faith, however as illustrated in CPC Group Ltd v Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co, enforcing a term isn't a breach of good faith. 

Potentially it could also be argued that the statement offered was not a term by a letter of comfort in line with Klemtwort Benson v. Malaysian mining corporation. Though the balance of knowledge and the timing of the contract might make it seem more like a term, in reality the manager was stating the company policy at that moment. A policy may be changed within a company at any point. 

Though we could see the statement as introducing a warranty in line with the car cases. The time and balance of knowledge would be in their favour, however we could argue that the term is again too uncertain to meaningfully enforce and therefore disentitling them to set it aside. Therefore it would revert to the written agreement. 
The next issues are two-fold, first I will treat with the onerousness of the term. This is a fairly harsh term and it would be difficult to enforce without it being brought to the attention of the buyer in line with Interfoto v. Stiletto, however, the fact that C raised an issue with it indicates that the term was brought to the attention. Therefore B made good on their duty to raise that likely based on the fact it was raised. Equally we could appeal to standard terms and prior dealings in line with the crane case. 

The next issue is to do with misrepresentation which is potentially the most dangerous claim that C could raise against B. They could argue that G’s statement was inducing and that would entitle them to Section 2(1) damages potentially. The statement clearly was inducing but we could argue it innocently if there could be some proof that G had good grounds for saying what he said. Perhaps company policy, though that would open them up to have a certain term depending on prior cases in the company. The only argument possible would be to try and behave like the statement was just an opinion and not a representation intended to be inducing. It would be tough but potentially possible. 

Though that would find for the Garage, to find for Brandon, argue City and Westminster v. Mudd, and Curtis v. Chemical cleaning. Signed contracts that were subject to oral variation. Car cases to demonstrate that it is a term based on balance of knowledge and timing. Refute uncertainty by saying 'don't take any notice of that,' is taken to mean the term is severed for a consumer operating in good faith. Ancillary material can be severed in line with Nicolene v. Simmonds, and therefore provided Brandon had proof of acting in good faith then they could enforce either the oral variation of the contract, or the collateral contract against the garage. Equally they could also claim misrepresentation in line with Royscott Trust v. Rogerson, where they were induced to make a contract on the basis of this term about how the policy would be enforced even if it was found to be too uncertain to be a term. 