---
title: Land Tutorial 4
---

1. What is the difference between (i) an easement, (ii) a licence and (iii) a lease?

An easement is a right to use subservient land, but not to occupy it, a licence is a contractual right with another party to be able to use premesis but is not an absolute right against the world as a land right would be, a lease is an estate in the land for a certain term of years, and provides an absolute right to occupation subject to a term of years and law regulations such as Section 21 notices from the 1988 Housing Act. 

2. Why should easements not exist ‘in gross’?

Easements in gross are easements that arise without the dominant tenament attaining any benefit whatsoever. They should not exist because they do not confer benefits and therefore value, and can only detract from the value of the subservient tenament.

3. Why are any easements ever implied?

They can be implied through two mechanisms the Wheeldon v. Barrows rule, and the Statutory Rule found in S. 62 of the LPA 1925 which reads as follows in subsections 2 and 3 of the act, which maintains that they are conveyed with the conveyance. ER Ives Investments v. High, is important here because it implies that it requires either acquiesence of a party for the Wheeldon v. Barrows rule, or conveyance which does not happen if land is seized.

4. In what circumstances is it possible to claim an easement has been created by reservation?

When it is necessary provided that you are the buyer and not the seller. 

Problem Question:

Lionel is the freehold owner of a country estate, Gatsby Park, and lives there in Gatsby House. In 2020 Lionel sold the old Toll House on the estate to Marian. The Toll House has access to the main road, but there has always been a track leading from it across the rest of Gatsby Park to Dingley Dell, a nearby beauty spot. 

DD Easement. Test for an easement

1. There is a dominant and subservient tenament M is dominant over L
2. They are owned by seperate people M, D and L, S.
3. The easement does give benefit to the land since access to a local beauty spot is given
4. Can the right exist as an easement? Perhaps on account of the necessity then it would fail. 

Ultimately depends on interpretation from Wheeldon v. Barrows

Wheeldon v. Burrows -> Piece of land divided up to form a workshop, attempt to plea an easement for the light, found to not have a right of easement. Two rules found within First "all those easements which are necessary to the reasonable enjoyment of the property granted, and which have been and are at the time of the grant used by the owners of the entirety for the benefit of the part granted." Second "if the grantor intends to reserve any right over the tenement granted it is his duty to reserve it expressly in the grant." Necessity and how it applies to owners emerges from this case.

Since 2020 the Toll House has needed frequent repairs, and Marian has often had to go on to the land retained by Lionel in order to carry these out. 

1. M D, L S
2. M D, L S
3. Benefits the land through being able to repair it and it is necessary to give it value
4. It can exist as an easement yes Ward v. Kirkland repairs are allowed provided they do not ouster the D from the land which they may.

In 2021 Lionel granted a one-year lease to Nancy of an old cottage on the estate. At that time, he said that Nancy could park her car on a piece of land behind Gatsby House itself, and that she could store her garden tools and equipment in an outbuilding also used by Lionel. In October 2022 Lionel renewed the tenancy, granting Nancy a lease for ten years, but nothing was said about parking or use of the outbuilding.

Two easements claimed. Easements do continue under S. 62 rules allowing continued rights on the basis of conveyance. Okay I'm tired this can be finished some other time. 

In January 2024 Lionel sold Gatsby Park to Olly, who has told Marian and Nancy that in no circumstances are they to trespass on his land in future.

Advise Marian and Nancy.
