---
title: Public Law Tutorial 2
---

1.	How do the following constitutional principles inform our thinking about the role of the courts in judicial review of executive action?

Parliamentary sovereignty
They may undermine PS through judicial review, though note the wording in Factortame, where the act was disapplied to give effect to prior legislation and British railways v. Pickin shows that the merits of why the law was passed may not be reviewed, so in some ways Judicial Review may bolster PS, it depends on the application. 

Rule of law
JR bolsters rule of law by making sure the law applies to all equally, and that the use of the law is the primary means by which power is exercised in the UK.

Separation of powers
JR may put stress on SoR in the sense that the Judiciary may be seen to legislate. However the classical role of the Judiciary is to interpret how the laws apply, and in that respect it may not be the case that JR does put stress on SoR but it is debatable, where does interpretation end and legislation begin, in JR the courts can often find themselves in the position of picking a winner. 

Ministerial responsibility
JR does clearly bolster the degree to which ministers are taken to account. While the commentary on JR being like ‘lightening,’ might indicate some contempt on behalf of ministers ultimately JR is a clear additional level of accountability where ministers may be held to account for how their decisions were made. 

2.  Why is the GCHQ case considered so important when thinking about judicial review? Hint: you should be able to come up with more than one reason!
The GCHQ case was a landmark in that it established that there were places the Royal Prerogative may be reviewed by the judiciary and held to be illegal. It also clearly gave areas where the courts could intervene and wouldn’t, of which national security was found to be one. It also gave indications for how the courts would review executive action. They would look to see if the action was illegal, that is beyond the bounds of statute, if there were procedural improprieties, that were explored more in Ex Parte Evans, where it was found that the lack of a hearing made the action by the police to fire him unjust. As well as ‘irrationality,’ this is not really given much of an objective limb by Lord Diplock, but it is clear that decisions that don’t make any rational sense may be reviewed by the courts. 

3.  Parliament has set up a body known as the Disadvantaged Students Board tasked with the exercise of distributing the allocated funds. You have been asked to draft regulations (a statutory instrument) for the Board. You are not sure whether the regulations should contain a set of detailed rules as to who is to be eligible or whether the Board should have a wide discretion to distribute funds ‘as it thinks fit’. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the two approaches? 
The detailed set of rules could become onerous and bureaucratic to administrate which means that the overall fund may become locked away and unable to be used for the good of the students it was intended to serve. An example of rules getting in the way of welfare can be seen particularly in disability payments in the UK where the restrictions were changed, leading to people who were intended to have access not having access to their funds. However, in reverse clear rules may create a process which is more accountable, though that does in turn mean that procedural issues in administration may be open to judicial review more generally as can be seen in Lord Diplock’s comments on procedural irregularities in the GCHQ case, and Ex Parte Evans. Equally if the minister acts outside of clear rules then they find themselves in a GCHQ mire of illegality. 

Paradoxically an act where a minister has wide discretion has less means of accountability but avoids the procedural pitfalls would be less open to review on the grounds of procedure or illegality but may find itself in the mire of irrationality in line with GCHQ. Equally with the passage of the ECHR the specific way funds may be distributed may end up opening the way for judicial review. That’s not to say that illegality won’t come into play, if the act was intended to be used in a specific way then it is possible that if they are used for something vastly different it may be open to judicial review. The case would rhyme with ex parte fire brigades union, where the wide discretion given to the minister may be hemmed in if found to conflict with other parliamentary issues. 

Ultimately I would advise a less clearly drafted act with more ministerial discretion, as the avenues for judicial review are slimmer but also open in the case of far more severe breaches of the intention of the act. 

4.  Consider the following fact scenario and draft the legal advice you would give to your client(s) in this situation (based on your knowledge of judicial review grounds to date):

An Act of Parliament confers a discretionary power on the Secretary of 	State for Economic Development to provide financial assistance to businesses facing financial hardship.  The Act sets out criteria under which a grant may be made.  These include that the business is “operating in an area designated by the Secretary of State as being in priority need.”  (This is the only relevant criterion for our purposes.)

Morris and Sons, a family firm running a chain of artisan coffee bars, has been informed that they are not eligible for support as only three of their five shops are in Kensinglea.  However, they actually have four coffee bars in Kensinglea and the fifth is located just a street away from the border of Kensinglea. The letter they receive declining their 	application states that in addition to not meeting the criterion of “operating in a priority need area”, the Secretary of State has adopted a strict policy of making grants to those businesses which have been operating for at least five years.  Morris and Sons have been in business for the last 3 and a half years. What advice can you give Morris and Sons?


The first problems would be determining if Morris and Sons can make a claim. First of all there is the issue of standing. Likely cleared in this case as Evans and ex Parte Smedley as well as Ex Parte Rees Mogg demonstrate, standing has been expanded to include people beyond those who are directly affected by government action. Morris and Sons are directly effected and as such they would have sufficient standing very likely. In addition the way the minister has structured the criteria as very restrictive without a statutory basis may lead to others who are denied on the same basis. They would need to act promptly with their claim as there is a 3-month limit on JR cases as outlined in part 54 CPR. 

The problems are a conflict between the text of the act and the application of the act, wherein the text says that the business is ‘operating in an area designated by the SoS as being in priority need.’ The question becomes how we interpret the statute as written and does the executive action in question meet this interpretation as well as the factual errors. We will first treat the factual errors. 

In light of Anisminic ltd v. Foreign Compensation Commission, mistakes of fact open the avenue to JR, and since the criteria as they do arguably in point of fact have 5 coffee shops which do business within the area of Kingslea, as such it is arguable that in point of fact they do meet the criteria and they were denied. 

Next regarding the time of years, there is no statutory power for this as the text only points towards geographic area and not time. Therefore in line with Entick v. Carrington, if it is not in our books then it is not law, then the years section can easily be severed away in light of judicial review. 

Ultimately I would advise M and S that their claim is likely to be successful on the basis of factual errors in line with Anisminic, and the enrolled bill rule found in the much older case of The King v. Arundel. There is no statutory basis for the term of years, and in point of fact they do meet the criteria for operating in a priority area as necessarily any coffee shop on the border of a town does operate within that town. To argue otherwise would be fanciful. 

If I were the minister I would argue that the minister determines the areas, and operating in the town should not be defined as merely operating within the statutory boundary but within the town properly, and by operating in, as a coffee shop the business is linked to the land its on, therefore the fifth coffee shop could not be claimed to be operating there. Equally the term of years is perfectly legal as there is nothing in the act saying that the years of operation may not be considered. Though this second prong is likely to fail. 
