---
title: Public Law Tutorial 3
---

Questions

1.	Are the illegality grounds of improper purpose and irrelevant considerations the same?
Scholars do consider there to be a great deal of overlap between the two, but they are fundamentally not the same thing. However the clear thing is that improper purpose relates to statutory interpretation, what is the purpose of the act that supposedly conferred the powers used, for example in Padfield. Whereas irrelevant considerations is similar but different it doesn’t relate to the specific purpose of the act, but rather that something was done completely outside the act and not part of any kind of rational consideration, see Roberts. So purpose is more to do with the act, irrelevant is more to do with baseline rationality. 

2.	Why is natural justice considered important?  What was significant about the decision in Ridge v Baldwin [1964] AC 40? 
It mentioned the rule against bias, and natural justice to evaluate the law and gave a right to be heard to ensure that a decision is carried out without personal bias. 

3.	What is the rule against bias?  What are the different types of disqualification and when do they apply?  Hint: cases are useful to cite as examples of different types of bias.
There is actual bias, of which there is very little case law. The appearance of bias which is automatically disqualifying as shown in the case of Dimes v. Grand Canal Junction, where the judge owned shares in a company and stood to benefit. He claimed he forgot he owned them however he was found to be disqualified. Similarly in R v. Bow Street Mags we also see another case of apparent bias, where trusteeship in Amnesty International was seen to be biased against Pinochet. Then there is appearance of bias which is found in Porter v. Magill, it asks what a fair minded observer would think, however appearance of bias is not automatically disqualifying and is contingent on circumstances and results. 

4.	Consider the following fact scenario and draft the legal advice you would give to your client in this situation (based on your knowledge to date):

Leon is the owner of 510 square foot Sheesha Lounge (a venue for smoking flavoured tobacco) in Mile End called “The Canopy” which caters to a growing student market. It has been such a success that he plans to expand his business and subsequently applies for planning permission as required under the Night-time Licenses (Small Business) Regulation 2020 to Tower Hamlets Council. The regulation is outlined below. 

Night-time Licenses (Small Business) Regulation 2020
These regulations prescribe the authorisation by the Tower Hamlets Council for the granting of licences for small night-time business in the borough. 

[…]
a)	Licenses will be granted for existing business for further planning permission in the Tower Hamlets areas, whom correctly complete ‘Form F’. 
b)	The council may refuse licenses for those that do not correctly complete ‘Form F’ or for reasons as the council sees fit. 

Assume Leon correctly fills in ‘Form F’.

Citing the regulation in support of its decision, the Council Planning Committee (comprised of the Council Leader, the Deputy Leader and a newly-elected councillor) refuses planning permission for the following reasons. 

•	It has a policy to refuse applications for business that are over 500 square feet. 
•	The council states that it does not want to expand ‘less sophisticated’ businesses in the area. 

Leon also has evidence that the Council Leader has written polemical articles denouncing sheesha lounges as ‘philistine’ and ‘dens of iniquity’. 

There would be two principal lines of argument that could be brought. Firstly, improper purpose. The purpose of the regulation is to promote small businesses however small is plainly to do with the monetary size of the business and not the square footage. The purpose of the act is to enable the existence of small enterprises, not big companies, to gain the correct licenses. In line with Padfield the purpose of the act needs to be considered. Therefore small would be improper purpose as well as an irrelevant consideration as it is not relevant to the business revenue the specific square footage of the business. 

There is a second argument on the basis of the rule against bias in line with Ridge v. Baldwin. 
