---
title: Contracts Damages Tutorial II
---

1. Large is a successful impresario with earnings of £1 million a year and more. In March he contracts with Ken, a popular violinist, to appear at a concert in June. 

A month later Ken is approached by Garrick, another impresario who is unaware of the arrangement with Large, and asked to play at a different concert on the same night. Garrick adds that the concert is to be recorded. Ken is attracted by this offer and at once signs an agreement to appear at Garrick's concert. He then writes to Large telling him that he will not, after all, be able to appear at Large's concert. 

Large immediately replies that it is vital that Ken does appear. He explains that he (Large) is about to conclude an agreement with Midbrow TV to televise his concert, and has already had to borrow £500,00 from Midas Bank to finance the concert, the biggest he has yet planned and on which he has staked his entire capital and reputation. 

A week later Large concludes his contract with Midbrow TV. It provides that in the event of default by either party damages in the agreed sum of £250,000 shall be payable. Large sends a copy of this contract to Ken, but hears no more from him. 

On the day of the concerts Ken plays for Garrick. Large's concert is a failure and thousands of the audience successfully demand the return of their money. Midbrow is demanding the agreed damages. Large is forced to sell his business, and the only 
job he has been offered is as a professor of Business Studies, which pays only £35,000 per annum and which he wishes to decline. 

Advise Large. 

2. P is a soft-fruit grower. It has an extensive refrigeration plant so that it can freeze part of its crops and take advantage of high off-season prices. P has a contract with D for monthly inspection and maintenance of the plant. Shortly afterwards, the spring strawberry crop was picked and frozen, but then the plant broke down because of a fault which the last inspection should have revealed. At the time of the breakdown, P's entire workforce was picking the early raspberry crop. As the temperature in the plant began to rise, P's manager decided to dispatch the strawberries for immediate sale. To check and pack them, he had to bring in all the field workers; P's picking system is so efficient that it uses only half the workforce of its competitors, and no casual labour was available at that time of year. 

The strawberries were sold for £150,000, £100,000 less than they would have fetched the following winter. Because of the delay in picking, some of the raspberry crop was overripe and its value dropped from £80,000 to £50,000. D has denied liability and maintains that the losses were due to P's method of operation. 

Advise P. 

3. Arabella loves stone pigs. She contracts with Long, Slow and Sleezee, ("LSS") a firm of local contractors to construct 15 stone pigs on columns in her garden. The columns are to be constructed to a height of no less than 14 feet. Arabella wishes to see the tops of the pigs from the first floor windows of her Georgian home. LSS construct the columns, but due to a mistake, on their part, the pigs are only 12 feet off the ground. Arabella is very upset. She learns that it will cost £50,000 to re-establish the columns such that they will be 3 feet higher. LSS refuse to undertake the work. They point out, rightly, that her property is better off having the pigs at the lower height because if they were any higher, they would detract from the value of Arabella's house. Arabella has commenced an action against LSS for breach of contract and consults you as to what remedies she should seek. 
