---
title: Public Law Tutorial 18 Human Rights
---

1. In your opinion, do sections 3 and 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998 represent a threat to parliamentary sovereignty?
How could they? Parliament is still given full legislative power, incompatible acts remain effective even if they have a cloud hanging over them. They could be developed to limit PS more in future if JR powers are used to make actions taken under incompatible acts in effective, but as things stand S. 4 is incredibly weak. It has no strike down power, it has no effect on the operation of the law itself. It would need to be supplemented by common law or other court actions so as to make a declaration of incompatibility meaningful in any sense of the word. S. 3 is more of a threat as it means that the courts can interpret legislation in very broad ways to make them compatible, but given that Parliament has in the past denied this power it does demonstrate that the buck stops at Parliament so long as they remember to append the correct words to the statute, and ultimately Parliament may remove the Human Rights Act itself as has been proposed many times. In effect S. 3 and 4 can be made ineffective by Parliament, or removed by Parliament, and there is no ultimate challenge to Parliamentary sovereignty that could be advanced in a substansive sense through the Human Rights Act as it currently exists. 

2. In relation to each of the following claimants, discuss whether the court should utilise section 3 or section 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998 to provide a remedy:  

(a) Keyla is a district judge. She has raised her concerns about the impact of cost cutting reforms with senior managers in the Courts and Tribunal Service. She believes she has been victimised and bullied as a result of her complaints and has argued that she should receive protection as a ‘whistle blower’ under section 230 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 which protects ‘workers’. The court determines that she is not a ‘worker’ within the meaning of section 230 of the Act but that the exclusion of judges from this protection is a violation of Article 14 of the ECHR with Article 10 (prohibition of discrimination in freedom of expression).

Let's apply Ghaidan v. Godin Mendoza here and R v. A here to evaluate. In both cases S. 3 was used but the former case was held up as an example of how that section should be used and the latter as a deplorable use of the power to legislate. So in Ghaidan they examined the act, they found incompatibility, so that is step 1. So first we need to find if this lack of protection is an incompatibility. Article 10 and Article 14 are alleged. Would this come within the margin of appreciation, and would this be addressed by Ullah, there have been cases on whistleblowing in the ECtHR, specifically the LuxLeaks case Halet v. Luxembourg where they found that the whistleblower's Article 10 rights had been violated. So there is reason to believe that the ECtHR would be similarly protective of whistleblowers, but this case relates to who is a worker in general. That might be too broad. Either way if the court does find an incompatibility then Step 2. Is this evaluation.

In Ghaidan they took an older act and looked at the social purpose behind it. The purpose of of the Employment Rights Act is to protect workers, and clearly being fired for being a whistleblower as a worker would violate this purpose. Is a judge however a worker. If the court found so then it could interpret the Act using S. 3 to fulfill the social goal advocated here. 

(b) Ramez continues to seek a full investigation into the death of his son in police custody in 2015. Section 8 of the Historic Investigations Act 2021 provides that no investigation into a death is required if the death occurred before 2018. When introduced into Parliament, the Historic Investigations Bill was accompanied by a section 19 statement of compatibility. The court determines that section 8 of the Historic Investigations Act 2021 is a violation of Article 2 of the ECHR (the right to life).

So the Court may issue a declaration of incompatibility but is not compelled to do so. Given that there is a S. 19 statement on compatibility then a court might examine this to be deferential and look at the reasons behind the act itself as it was in the Animal Defender's Case. This is a recent act and that was a grounds for crtitcizing R v. A, and again the act was passed to specifically adress one specific issue and a S. 3 interpretation would undermine the social function of the act. Therefore a S. 4 declaration is more likely. 

3. The Public Protest Act 2024 (fictitious) is passed by Parliament to repeal and replace
protest legislation. The purpose is to regulate public protests which take place at airports and on public highways. Section 1 establishes the Independent Protest Commission (IPC). Section 2 provides that those organising a protest must have permission for the protest to take place and that this will be granted taking into account ‘the disruption caused to the services of an airport or highway.’ Section 3 provides that it is a criminal offence to hold a protest which falls within section 2 without permission. 

There is concern that the Public Protest Act 2024 is incompatible with Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights (freedom of expression). Discuss how the Human Rights Act 1998 would apply, and what remedy would be possible, in relation to each of the following events.

(a) PlaneFacts, a protest group, holds a protest without permission on a road leading to Stansted Airport. The group’s protest consists of large billboards depicting melting ice in the Arctic. Traffic to the airport slows as motorists glance at the billboards leading to a one hour delay in reaching the airport by road. Members of the group are charged under section 3 of the Public Protest Act 2024.

Article 10 Freedom of Expression rights. This was a recently passed act, it has no S. 19 declarations, nor any declarations which preclude the HRA from taking effect. The petitioner is a directly affected group, and they are going against a core public body so the act is engaged. Article 10 is a qualified right, so first we need to examine if the action is prescribed by law. It is prescribed by law and is laid out within legislation and clearly communicated to groups. Next we engage a necessity analysis, would a less restrictive measure fulfill the same goal. 

Potentially it would. However given the point of the act is to make protests less disruptive then it would not be able to achieve that goal if it did not confer the power to regulate protests therefore it is likely that no less restrictive measure is avaiable except maybe a check on the board. Next there is a proportionality analysis, given that the group exists to disrupt and excercise their rights, the impact of the legislation is to preclude them from protesting at all. However they were disrupting the road, if they were however next to the road then it would be disproportionate to prevent them, given that they are directly disrupting the road then the measure may well be proportionate. Though again this is a criminal charge and so disproportionality could well still be found. 

If incompatibility were found then it is important to proceed on the basis of what power would be used. Let's examine S. 3, S. 3 is less criticized when used to update older acts and is done in line with the purpose of the legislation. This is a new act and it's whole purpose is to limit protest disruption. Therefore, S. 3 would be very hard for the courts to use. S. 4 Declaration of Incompatibility would be most likely given this, were an incompatbility to be found. 

(b) The European Court of Human Rights recently held in Nowak v Poland (fictitious) that the right to protest against coal mining is a vitally important right. Inspired by this judgment, Dimo applies to the Independent Protest Commission for permission to hold a half-day protest on the main road leading to the Cumbria Coal Mine. It is possible for travellers to avoid this road but taking the alternate route increases journey time by, on average, 20 minutes. The IPC refuses his application as the planned protest will ‘disrupt the highway’ and inconvenience highway users.

Ullah time, so since Strassbourg has said this it is important that the UK not go below that standard. So that will be important in this case.