---
title: Criminal Law Tutorial 3
---

Case: R v Lawrance [2020] EWCA Crim 971
Judges at the court of appeal: Lord Burnett of Maldon, Justice Cutts, Justice Tipples
Facts: Case where D lied about his fertility, claiming to have been rendered infertile 'given the snip,' when in point of fact D was fertile the whole time. D later asserted repeatedly prior to sex with V that he was infertile. V got pregnant and had an abortion. 
Issue: Does a lie about fertility constitute enough to vitiate consent?
Finding: Not capable of vitiating consent, court found that the lie did not go to the heart of the act, as she had consented to sexual activity and therefore her consent had not been broken. Distinguished from Assange, where there was a condition placed directly upon the sex. 
Personal Opinion: This case is a mess, just because there was no physical restriction doesn't mean that the consent wasn't contingent on his infertility and the emphasis V placed on that status prior to them having sex and the extent to which D lied about it demonstrates the issues. 

1.	What was the definition of consent before the Sexual Offences Act 2003? What is the definition of consent now? 

There was no statutory definition of consent prior to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 and courts had to rely on common law to provide such a thing. The definition of consent is found in section 74 and is as follows "For the purposes of this Part, a person consents if he agrees by choice, and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice." Section 3 of the Mental Capacity act 2005 someone has to be able to (a) understand the information relevant to the decision, (b) retain that information, (c) use or weight hat information as part of the process of making a decision, (d) 

2.	Find the facts of Dougal (unreported) 24 November 2005, Crown Ct at Swansea (hint: there was quite a lot of media coverage at the time – you do NOT need the court report). Do you agree with Sir Igor Judge in Bree that the “inability of the complainant to remember whether she gave her consent or not might on further reflection be approached rather differently.” (at para 32) 

I do not agree with this notion. I do not terribly wish to discuss this further. 

3.	Berta, a single mother, has worked at the same company for 4 years. Recently, her boss Alan had promised her an end of year bonus, in prevision of which she booked a holiday for her children. At the office Christmas party, Alan made advances to her and made it clear that he might have to rethink her bonus if she did not agree to have sex with him. Feeling stressed and under pressure, Berta drank more than usual and eventually had sex with Alan. Was an offence committed? 

In applying Lawrence and Bree, then it would be the case that she gave consent. If we follow Lawrence then we can see the sex as taking part under two specific actions. The operative case on pressured consent is R v. Olugboja, where V was pressured into sex by D and the threat was implicit through the rape of other women. This case is different from the case at issue here. The degree of pressure would likely be insufficient to constitute consent enough for the actus reus and the mens rea of rape. Equally it would be difficult for this to get around the reasonable belief in consent which could always be pleaded. Though there could be a case under R v. Kirk, but Kirk was a much more direct case, 14 year old runaway going to a former abuser to ask for money. R v. Jheeta could apply but that was a long running and bizzare case. Either way, a case like this would never go to court, it would never be covered, nobody would care. Except the victim. Who is probably going to be maligned as a liar. Unjustly. 

4.	According to the presumptions in the Sexual Offences Act 2003, is there rape in the following situations? 
a) D promised V money for sexual intercourse but left without paying. 
There is a case on this R v. Linekar, and it was held that there was no rape only fraud. 

b) D, pretending to be Brad Pitt, tricks V into having sexual intercourse with him. 
Fulfills the criteria of section 76(2), there is an impersonation, the pimersonation is in all likeliehood known but this is not a given, if it weren't the case then there would be no impersonation. In such a case there would be no consent. 

c) D, who is happily married to V, comes home to find her asleep and starts having sexual intercourse with her. She wakes up and tells him to stop. 
Following R v. Lartner sleep cannot provide consent, and having sex with someone while asleep is enough to constitute the actus reus for rape. 

d) In a bar, D secretly buys V an alcoholic cocktail rather than the non-alcoholic drink she asked for. V doesn’t notice the difference and, not being used to alcohol, is inebriated. D drives V back to her flat where they have sexual intercourse. 
There could be consent found here in line with R v. Lawrence, R v. Bree, the unreported case mentioned earlier. Drunkenness does not in itself vitiate consent. 

5. Explain the relationship between sections 74, 75 and 76 Sexual Offences Act 2003. 
Section 74 defines consent and sections 75 and 76 provide for situations where that consent may end up vitiated.
