---
title: Public Law Human Rights Tutorial 23/03/26
---

1. To what extent is the constitutional principle of the rule of law reflected in the test of prescribed by law?

Any abrogations of convention rights must be based in law directly and cannot be done merely through executive powers. McE case where there was difficulty on if a regulatory order could be sufficient as a basis to abrogate those rights to an end. A majority concluded it was authorized. However R v. Mason surveliance of a criminal found not to be justified because there was not a clear enough basis in law and without that basis then there could be no conversations of margin of appreciation. 

2. What is the difference between the test of proportionality utilised to determine if a breach of Convention rights is lawful, and the judicial review ground of irrationality?

The Smith case provides a good example. Wednesbury unreasonableness is a very very high bar, and it requires little evidence to rebut. So long as reasonable people have reached a given conclusion then that is sufficient evidence to displace a claim of Wednesbury unreasonableness. Since the army and House of Lords supported the barring of gay service members from serving then that was sufficient.

However proportionality asks a different question. It is much more clearly about the impact on the people affected and if that impact is proportionate to the aim trying to be achieved. It asks much more in terms of evidence as it did in the Smith case, and looked for the justifications used by those groups in their opinions. Therefore there are two different tests that lead to two different outcomes. 

3. Griffin is a tax law barrister who, in his spare time, likes to engage in debates on political issues via X using the handle @Griffinbaby. There is no limit to the issues he discusses. He follows 10,000 users and he has more than 20,000 followers on the platform.
When it is announced that there will for the first time be a majority of female judges on the UK Supreme Court, Griffin logs on to X and posts his replies to some of the posts he sees. Two posts, and his replies, are as follows:

(i) @womenamazing: Congratulations! About time!

@Griffinbaby: What is so amazing? None of them deserve to be there, it’s just for
appearances!

(ii) @NivaC: This is so inspiring. I hope to make it one day too!

@Griffinbaby: Niva you have got no hope! Don’t forget, I won against you in the High
Court on Monday. The Supreme Court of Cookie Baking is more likely for you L.O.L.

Niva, who is a member of the same chambers as Griffin, is very upset by his comment and
immediately informs the Bar Standards Board (the professional body regulating barristers) and also contacts the police.

In accordance with new guidelines ‘Hope Not Hate’, not yet published, Officer Femi from the Metropolitan Police visits Griffin at his home. He informs him that he has not committed a criminal offence, but he has breached the Hope Not Hate Guidelines. The Commissioner of Police has decided that his name will be retained indefinitely on a national database. The next day, Griffin receives a letter from the Bar Standards Board informing him that it is undertaking an investigation following a complaint of professional misconduct. Griffin has heard of the Human Rights Act 1998 and has read Article 8 (respect for private life) and Article 10 (freedom of expression) of the European Convention on Human Rights. Limiting your answer to the issues of prescribed by law and proportionality, advise Griffin.

So we have two bodies here, a core public body, that of the commissioner of police, and a private body the bar standards board. Since the bar standards board is a private body then there is no need for the court to consider claims in that direction for Human Rights Act, though other claims and remedies may of course exist.

The police commissioner is a core public body and therefore is bound by the Human Rights Act and these claims can be evaluated. In terms of the respect for private life claim, since twitter is a public forum this is unlikely to be substantiated and thus this claim can be dispensed with. In terms of the Article 10 claim however, there may be issues with this. First the guidelines are guidelines and likely insufficient to reach the level of legality necessary to begin to abrogate that right. Second, these guidelines have not even been published, therefore even if they had been validly incorporated as part of the law, they would not be allowed to be relied on as part of a qualification of an Article 10 right. 

Assuming however that they were published and validly found to be part of the law, then we could engage in a proportionality investigation. Article 10 allows for qualifications of that right and those may be found to be warranted in this case, contingent on the facts. It would depend on a weigh up between the interference which is likely not major since there is no criminal offence being cited, and the policy goal which could be found within the margin of appreciation. 