---
title: Land Law Tutorial 3
---

Questions
1. In what way does the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 simplify the law of co-ownership?
Don't know. Might look up later. 

2. Would it be desirable to abolish equitable joint tenancies?
No, because it removes the right of survivorship which may be desireable in some JT arrangements. 

3. Why is the number of legal co-owners limited; and why must they hold the legal estate as joint tenants?
Ease of conveyance. 


In January 2018 five friends, Alice, Brian, Charles, Diana and Edward, all became trainee solicitors in the same law firm. They decided to pool their savings and buy a house in which to live together for £275,000. Their
contributions were not equal. The property was conveyed to Alice, Brian and Charles upon trust for all five of them as beneficial joint tenants. They expressly agreed in writing with each other that the property would not be
sold before they had all become partners in the firm.

A B C D E 

Starting situation
2D ABCD
3D ABCDE
Purpose of trust: Somewhere to live until partnership. 

In 2019 Alice decided that a legal career was not for her, and she left the firm to take up employment as a nanny in another part of the country. She sent a registered letter to the other four, saying that she wished to sever the
beneficial joint tenancy. For some unknown reason, the letter never arrived. In 2020 Charles, too, decided to leave the firm. He orally agreed with Diana that she could buy his share for £12,000, as soon as he (Charles) had found somewhere else to live. Charles moved back home to live with his parents but, despite persistent requests from Diana, Charles has still not assigned his share to her.

Events of 2019 Alice Severed in line with Statutory Severance Section 36 of the LPA 1925, Re 88 Berkeley Road, deemed severed if registered mail even if undelivered, unless the letter returned. Therefore,

2D ABCD
3D A+B/CDE

C, no consideration since no money exchanged therefore buyout does not occur. 

In 2021 Brian ran into financial difficulties and he borrowed money from the Bonkers Bank. Because the bank insisted that the loan was secured on the property, Brian forged the signatures of Alice and Charles on the mortgage deed.

Events of 2021, Brian acting on his own share Williams v. Hensman creates a loan in equity through the forged signatures, applying  Edwards v. Lloyds TSB Bank plc.

2D ABCD
3D A+B/CDE

In December 2023 Alice was killed in a car crash. She left her entire estate to charity. Brian has now defaulted on the loan repayments. Diana and Edward  have just been made partners in their firm. Diana intends to move on to
another firm and, in common with the Bonkers Bank, wishes to have the house sold and the proceeds of sale distributed. Edward, on the other hand, intends to stay where he is.

Events of 2023, this is a mess, B has defaulted which means that the mortgage was on his share and we would have to go to look at a bill of sale. We would need to balance 4 different things under Section 15 of TOLATA

(a) Intention of creators (see Jones v. Challenger) 
E weighed against B's share now taken by BB and D, C is silent but he only has a monetary interest so it's likely he'd seek to sell. A's interest is also to sell since it would allow her to realize her dying wish through the donation. 
(b) purpose for which the land is held (See Re Buchanan-Wollaston's Conveyance) 
The purpose has been reached C does not want to do law and E and D both have so the idea has been realized. 
(c) Welfare of Minors potential or actual (Edwards v. Lloyds TSB and Shaire) 
No indication of minors in the property.
(d) Interests of secured creditors
Very significant, it would depend on the mortgage but the size of it would likely be large. 

2D BCD
3D 1/5 share to charity, B/CDE
Advise all interested parties as to their respective rights and interests

Postponement incredibly unlikely on the basis of the weight of factors, and the interests of creditors, likely sale ordered. 