---
title: Public Law Tutorial 4
---

Questions:

1. How does irrationality differ from proportionality and it is time to “perform its burial rites”? 

Irrationality concerns the thinking behind a decision, is the action taken so irrational and nonsensical that it should not proceed, proportionality is more concerned with if the decision by the government violated freedoms in a way that was proportional to the harm that was being prevented. Irrationality is circular and not very useful it is seldom successful as a plea, though there are examples R (D and another and Mayor of London) v. Parole Board and Another, which concerned the irrationality in releasing a dangerous prisoner early without considering the unsuccessful allegations made against him. Irrationality is somewhat circular and subjective however, and it should be gotten rid of. 

2. Consider the following scenario:

Jo is the owner of a themed bar in Mile End. The bar goes by the name of “The Library” and caters to the student market. It has been such a success that Jo has plans to expand her business by adding a small shop to the bar where patrons can buy alcohol to take away. She decides to dub her shop “The Dispensary” and have a chemists theme (retailers in white coats, receipts in the form of prescriptions). Her application is to be decided at a meeting of the local authority. Assume that the local authority has the legal power to make decisions granting licenses. 

Jo is invited to the meeting where the Council is deciding whether to grant her permission to open her shop.  She is well-prepared and brings plenty of documentation to support her case. Jo asks the Mayor if she can speak. The Mayor announces that Jo can table her papers and a summary of her arguments, but due to time constraints, they regret that she won’t be able to address them. The Mayor promises to consider all of Jo’s arguments carefully.  “But what about him?” says Jo, pointing to the Mayor’s husband, Jimmy Wilberforce who Jo knows is a well-known property developer.  She has reason to believe that he has his eye on her site. The Mayor assures her that both parties will have the ability to make submissions to the Council.  Sensing that she is not going to get any further, Jo hands in a copy of her arguments and leaves the meeting.  

Two weeks later Jo receives notification of the Council’s decision in the mail.  It declines Jo’s application. Part of the decision reads:

“We received submissions from both Ms Brown and Mr Wilberforce.  We also recalled Mr Wilberforce for further oral submissions on this point, and found compelling his information that his survey of its potential clientele found the name and theme of the proposed bar would lead it to being confused with an after-hours chemist. Given the strength of our concern, we believe we have no choice but to refuse.  Accordingly, the application is declined.”

Jo is very annoyed.  She has made a few enemies on the Council since she nabbed the spot for the bar from the Mayor (a well-known member of the Temperance League) who wanted it for a bookshop to sell tracts on the evils of alcohol.  She also thinks that her past involvement in selling certain types of non-medicinal pharmaceuticals may have counted against her.  She comes to you for advice.

Issues:
Appearance of bias/Apparent bias from the presence of property developer, and the mayor’s membership in the temperance league. (R v. Bow Street Mags)

Apparent bias. Issue, the mayor is a member of the temperance league and she is applying for a license for an alcohol business. Rule, R v. Bow Street Mags, membership in Amnesty international, which had previously condemned Pinochet, the man at issue in that case, meant that there was bias, and that was capable to instantly disqualify the decisionmaker. Analysis since the mayor is a member of a group as in that case that would bias them against the applicant, apparent bias would be found. Given that’s the case the mayor would be disqualified as a decisionmaker. However, since the council makes decisions collectively and not the mayor individually it might not be enough to overturn the whole decision. That being said, the mayor being in council meetings does indicate a large degree of sway by the mayor. 

Appearance of bias, the presence of W, another interested party next to the mayor. His arguments were also quoted in the decision. The rule on apparent bias is found in Porter v. Magill which talks about an honest objective fair-minded observer and what they would think. The rule is also found in Public First, the covid case. Therefore, given that he had interest in the land, as a property developer, though this is just an allegation from J, and W’s arguments were heard where J’s weren’t, and W’s arguments were mentioned in the decision that could constitute enough appearance of bias to appeal the decision. 

Right to be heard, Issue, her arguments were unheeded in the meeting due to ‘time constraints,’ rule, in line with Ridge v. Baldwin (the policeman dismissal case, where he was dismissed without cause) right to have your arguments heard by the decisionmaker and make your case, application, since her arguments were unheard she was denied the right to be heard, therefore there was procedural impropriety and the decision is open to judicial review on that ground.

Counter argument, but generally it is the case when someone is asking for something new that the right to a hearing or cross examination is unlikely to be granted. This rule is found in McInnes v. Onslow Fane, the boxing case where a boxing manager applied for a license and was denied and the court found no right to a hearing on the basis. Analysis, since J is applying for a new license the right to a hearing or cross examination may not be granted. Conclusion, however, this is merely concerning optional extras and not the main thrust of the right to be heard. 

That being said applying the rule in R v. The Chief Constable of the Thames Valley Police Ex Parte Andrew Brett Cotton, the right to be heard can be abridged if it would not make a material difference. Analysis, therefore, if there is no material change if she had been heard then there would be no grounds. Conclusion, therefore, she might not have a right to be heard. Counter, however since none of her arguments were heard and given her preparations the arguments are extensive, then that could have made a clear difference. 

Overall, the right to be heard, and make your case found in Ridge v. Baldwin does likely apply to this case, as she was denied the most basic elements of the right to be heard. 
