---
title: Public Law Human Rights Tutorial 2
---

Tutorial questions
1. In his judgment in Ullah [2004] UKHL 26 Lord Bingham held that it was the duty of national courts to ‘keep pace with the Strasbourg jurisprudence as it evolves over time.’ What are the advantages and disadvantages of this approach? What exceptions to this duty have developed?

He argues that the UK law cannot be ‘more generous,’ to a claimant than Strasbourg and this arises from S. 2 of the Human Rights Act 1998. In Al-Skeini Lady Hale commented that judges could go further, but there was no statutory requirement to do so, and that Parliament may also go further. 

There are advantages conferred by the Ullah approach. Previously jurisprudence on human rights in the UK was more a patchwork, and there was less grounds for action directly. To hew closer to Strasbourg also means that claimants before the court there will have a greater chance of having their case respected rather than overruled. Of course, this can be countered by the fact that if a claimant succeeds in UK court there is little need for them to appeal further though of course the UK government could appeal further. Ullah perhaps exists to simplify application in this respect. 

However, there are also disadvantages. It may prevent justice as it may imply an obligation too great from the convention. It also prevents UK judges from developing the convention internationally.  

The exceptions are where a judge in the UK feels Strasbourg decided an issue incorrectly, then it will be departed from and indeed the UK courts have no statutory or international duty to follow Strasbourg jurisprudence. Though this is unusual. This may arise from a court believing that Strasbourg failed to appreciate the margin that should be afforded to domestic processes.

Where Strasbourg is vague the UK courts may also depart.

Where it is a margin of appreciation the UK may also depart.

 2.  Classify each of the following in accordance with its status as a respondent under the Human Rights Act 1998. There are three possibilities: core public authority, hybrid public authority or private body. Be prepared to explain your reasoning:

 a) Queen Mary University of London -> Hybrid, receives public money and may exercise some statutory functions, perhaps in doing NHS grants etc.

b) BBC -> Hybrid, receives public money and may have statutory functions or duties as a result of its royal charter.

c) Facebook -> Private

d) The Times (newspaper) -> Private

e) Secretary of State for Defence -> Public body under Section 6(3)(b) as they are a member of the executive, and a person using a public function.

f) Parliament -> Not a public body, explicitly so under Section 6(3) of the Human Rights Act

3. In order to provide additional tutoring in mathematics to English school children (years 9-13) who request it, the Secretary for State for Education contracts with the private company Eduline Ltd to provide a total of three hours tutoring per student, per week. Eduline Ltd provides online maths education and its tutors are drawn from all over the world.

Limiting your answer to procedural issues only, discuss how the Human Rights Act 1998 would apply in each of the following situations (the Convention right engaged has been noted).

 a) The National Education Union is concerned that Eduline Ltd does not have the requisite skills to provide an effective service (Article 2 Protocol 1, right to education)

 b) Eduline Ltd accidental reveals online the personal details, including reports, of students at Folden College (Article 8, right to respect for private life)

 c) Eduline Ltd dismisses Pauline (UK based) from its employment as its online monitoring reveals she has been late logging on for her sessions three times in one week (Article 8, right to respect for private life)

 d) Mary is concerned that her son Sani will not be offered tutoring in A Level Further Maths. She is not sure if this is the fault of the Secretary of State or of Eduline Ltd (Article 14 non-discrimination, with Article 2 Protocol 1, right to education)

 e) After six months, Eduline Ltd’s contract is cancelled. It is concerned that it has not been awarded adequate compensation. (Article 1 Protocol 1, right to property)
