---
title: EU Law Tutorial 4
---

Important Articles, Article 34 TFEU, Quantative Restrictions on imports and all measures having equivalent effects are prohibited. Article 35 TFEU, Quantitative restrictions on exports, and all measures having equivalent effect, shall be prohibited between Member States. Article 36 TFEU, he provisions of Articles 34 and 35 shall not preclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security; the protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants; the protection of national treasures possessing artistic, historic or archaeological value; or the protection of industrial and commercial property. Such prohibitions or restrictions shall not, however, constitute a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade between Member States.

1.	What is an MEQR according to Dassonville? What are distinctly and indistinctly applicable measures?

Requirement in Belgium that there had to be a certificate of origin showing where goods were from and a French whiskey importer, importing whiskey from the UK, could not get such a certificate and it was held that in Dassonville it was an MEQR. It was a measure having equivalent effect to a quantative restriction on imports. 

Distinctly applicable measures are measures that mention directly and directly relate to imports as in the case of Denkavit v Minister für Ernährung, where even though importation licenses were granted automatically it still was a measure that was directly about imports. Border actions.

They may also include internal measures like in the 'Buy Irish,' case, where a campaign urging consumers to buy Irish was a directly applicable measure. 

Leclerc v Au Blé Vert demonstrated that internal measures that differentiate between domestic and imported goods are also distinctly applicable measures. 

2.	Why did the CJEU in Keck consider that it needed to reconsider its case law on the scope of the free movement of goods? How does Keck relate to Cassis de Dijon? 

3.	Consider the following two assertions (a. and b.) below about the judgment of the CJEU in Gourmet international Products (GIP). Which of them would you regard as a more accurate reflection of the judgment? If you consider that b. is true, what exactly constitutes the “hindrance” to market access:

a. The CJEU considered that legislation such as the Swedish legislation at issue in the case constituted a measure relating to selling arrangements. However, it also considered that the legislation did not affect the marketing of domestic and imported products in the same way. Therefore, the ‘Keck proviso’ was not satisfied and such a measure would therefore fall within the scope of Article 34.

b. The CJEU considered that the legislation such as the Swedish legislation at issue in the case hindered access to the Swedish market for alcoholic products from other Member States. It therefore fell within the scope of Article 34 TFEU.

4.	Would you say that, following the judgment of the CJEU in Motorcycle trailers, the Keck distinction between ‘product rules’ and rules relating to ‘selling arrangements’ is obsolete and we can decide all cases on the scope of Article 34 TFEU by asking oneself whether the rule “hinders market access”?

5.	Consider the judgment of the CJEU in the Vitamins case (case C-41/02). What exactly must the Netherlands show to establish that their legislation is justified on grounds of public health? Must they show that the addition of nutrients is demonstrably harmful to health? Is it enough for the Dutch legislature to sincerely, albeit subjectively, believe that added nutrients are harmful or must there be some objective elements on which whatever belief they have is grounded?

6.	Assess the compatibility with Articles 34-36 TFEU of the following:

i)	A decree in an EU Member State banning the use of the word ‘light’ or ‘lite’ on the packaging or name of food products. The government of the Member State takes the view that such terms may wrongly lead some consumers to assume that such products have a low fat content, which is not necessarily the case.

Not necessarily an MEQR captured by Article 34, would need to meet the market access test following from the Motorcycle Trailers case, if the restriction was discriminatory against imports then it would be in violation but if that wasn't present on the facts it would not be captured by Article 34, equally if it was captured then it would be further on the judgement of Article 36 or giving effect to mandatory requirements. 

ii)	A law in an EU Member State banning most forms of advertising for food supplements other than at the point of sale. In the government’s view, food supplements serve no purpose that cannot be achieved through the adoption of a healthy diet and individuals should not be encouraged to rely on such supplements.

This could amount to a market access restriction in line with the Swedish alcohol restriction but it could be justified on public health grounds under Article 36. subject to science. 

iii) A decision by the government of an EU Member State to ban the use onboard a moving vehicle of any device warning the driver of the proximity of a speed camera. The minister responsible for road safety indicated that this measure has been adopted to discourage speeding. Critics have argued that, in so far as virtually all speed cameras are in accident blackspots, warning drivers ensures that they drive more carefully and the measure.

Would not necessarily breach Article 34 as it applies domestically and to imports equally and therefore is nondiscriminatory. 