---
title: EU Law Tutorial 1
---

1.	Which Treaties are considered as the foundational Treaties of the EU today? Do they reflect the Treaties which introduced it and if so in what ways?

There’s the treaty of London 1949 which established the Council of Europe to protect European human rights, it’s linked insofar as the European Convention on Human rights, being a signatory is necessary in order to be an EU member state but it is not intrinsically linked to the EU itself as a body. There’s the European Coal and Steel Community which was established by the treaty of Paris 1951, and this evolved into the 1957 treaty of Rome which established the European Economic Community as well as a treaty establishing Euratom. These treaties were economic in nature but form the genesis of the EU today. 

They were then followed by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, which represented a rekindling of the 1950s political limbs of the EU, changing the EU’s name from the EEC to the EU. The Amsterdam treaty, was then signed in 1997 and then the Treaty of Nice in 2001 which gave effect to human rights in the EU bill of rights. In 2007 the Lisbon treaty was signed which was the primary treaty today and made the EU as we see it today. There are two treaties, the Treaty on the EU (TEU) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) as well as the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights from the Treaty of Nice. 

2.	Does the EU protect human rights? If so, would you describe the EU as a human rights organisation?

They do somewhat protect human rights, through the Treaty of Nice and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, as well as signing the European Convention on Human rights being a pre-requisite. However, the extent to which the ECHR acts to protect human rights is in itself easy to argue as the protocols within the convention have numerous exceptions and limitations and who rights apply or disapply to is also up for argumentation. The treaty of Nice also doesn’t exist to give effect to human rights, but to prevent issues were direct effect and supremacy of EU law over member states can be used to impose degradation in human rights, rather than upholding human rights the Treaty of Nice rights exist to prevent the EU destroying those rights that already existed. 

Though it could be argued that through pooled sovereignty and freedom of movement EU citizens are afforded more rights than they otherwise would be. However these rights exist for economic benefit. Though the move in recent years has moved from free movement of workers to people specifically, though the right to live in another country is also not necessarily a human right. Overall the EU isn’t a human rights organization even if it does at points intersect with human rights. 


3.	Is there any difference between the Council of Europe and the EU? Has it affected the EU’s development in any manner? Are all European states members of both the Council of Europe and the EU?

The Council of Europe was founded in 1949 with the treaty of London to create the ECHR and is separate from the institutions of the EU in every way and has no necessary relationship to the EU other than the need to sign the convention being a prerequisite for EU membership the institutions are not linked in a fundamental way. While being a member of the European Council is a pre-requisite for EU membership it is necessary but not sufficient to guarantee membership. It has affected the EU a little in that the Treaty of Nice had to be made in order to prevent EU direct effect and supremacy from interfering with the ECHR. 

4.	Who are parties to the EU Treaties and how can the Treaties be amended and by whom? If a single Member State and its government objects to a Treaty amendment, is it possible for that opposition from a single Member State to be overridden and the amendment adopted?

Article 48 of the Treaty on the EU provides the procedure for amending an EU treaty. Member States, the EU Parliament and the European Commission can suggest an amendment by submitting a proposal to the Council of the EU under article 48(2) of the Treaty on the EU. The council then looks at the changes, they then submit it to the commission who notifies national governments. Under article 48(3) the council can consult with the European Parliament and Commission, and there can be a convention. Under article 48(4) an intergovernmental conference is held and it’s led by the council’s president Member state unanimity is required. Note the council is made of the member states’ head of government or state. This is the ordinary procedure which increases or changes level of obligation. 

There’s the simplified procedure which does not make such broad changes. Under article 48(6) of the Treaty on the EU, the European Council decides with unanimity, they can consult with other bodies but they do not get to decide. Or the proposal comes from Member States/EP/Commission. There is also qualified majority voting in some situations. 

5.	What conditions must a state satisfy to be admitted to the European Union? Where are those conditions defined?

Article 49 TEU defines the legal framework of ascension. The Copenhagen Criteria also are used which are the ability for a state to meet the obligations of EU membership. Align their laws towards the EU, commit to joining the Eurozone and meet the economic criteria therein. Then there are negotiations between an ascending state and the EU. 

6.	Who decides of the opening of negotiations with a candidate state for accession? What is the final step in the accession process? Is the agreement of all existing Member States needed for a candidate Member State to become a member? Does the Commission play any role in the accession process?

The council first unanimously decides to open negotiations after application by a candidate country. The commission screens for 35 chapters grouped into 6 clusters in negotiations. The unanimous council decision to conclude negotiations with consent for the Eu parliament. Then there is the accession agreement subject to national ratification. 

7.	Compare the process of accession to the Union under Article 49 TEU to that of withdrawal from the Union under Article 50 TEU. Are they just similar, parallel processes or are there noticeable differences between the two in terms of the respective powers of the Union institutions on the one hand and the Member States on the other over those two processes?

Wrightman means that Article 50 can be revoked unilaterally and the same as a candidate country deciding to be dropped. There are then two years of negotiation on withdrawal and a withdrawal agreement passed by Qualified Majority Voting with EU Parliament consent. It is far less unanimous and easier than the ascension which means that perhaps EU states think that it is more exclusive to enter the club and less likely people will want to leave it in the first place. 
