---
title: An Account of State Power
taxonomies:
  tags:
    - depression
---

It is beyond easy for those of us with as little contact with the state as possible to lionize it. When the arm of the state reaches but into your pocket to take the sum of taxes owed and all other mechanisms obscured or valorised, it becomes easy to support the state as it exists. To be in such a state is to be an emancipated adult, earning one’s way and living freely and independently. The state does not bind you anymore than you should like with the exception of a few ground rules which you might well want to keep yourself anyway, rules which maintain the relationship and maintain lines of communication.

The state is an animal in the dark and the more you feel the more you begin to recognize its true shape. Fingers that reach into your wallet, arms that bind, a head that thinks, eyes that see. It is only through contact with the state that you recognize what it truly is. It is being fashioned more and more into a parent. Into a figure of control for those of us who are most under its thumb.

I live with the state breathing down my neck, I live with several states binding me. Preventing me from achieving my will. It could be said that the state is an alignment of wills collectively deciding to chart a national course. I am mostly not swayed by such arguments. The state is a beast far bigger than its constituent parts. That is what gives it such tremendous power and power for good. This is not an anarchist manifesto it is appealing to the current role of the state and the role it should have. We have fashioned it into a parent. It is the collective failure of the social order to create a parental state.

States originated as people as small tribes, small groups of hunter gatherers, then walled farming compounds and villages. The stronger state always won and that came with the ability to organize. Eventually the farmers work in service of a king who commands an army who can use the material tyranny of violence to exert power. Power is created two principle ways, by the tyranny of material reality manifest through violence, and through the policeman in one’s own head to manipulate the emotional reality felt by one’s subjects.

Power has always existed in a mixture of the two. It is forcing people with violence to act as you so wish, or making them act as you so wish by making them believe doing so would be the best course of action. Violence is always the least preferrable option in this case. For one violence can operate much better as a threat. The application of violence is best used to restrain and to radically prevent one from doing as one wants, it is little use in a positive application and the threat of violence which is in many ways part of the policeman in one’s own head that is a more effective means of exerting power.

In our larval tribal stage as a species organization was through familial bonds largely. Violence existed of course, cheddar man did not have a cave full of butcher marked human bones for nothing after all. Violence was a tool for acquiring what you want and preventing negative action by those who would obstruct you. However to create something that you wanted the other means was far more important. You needed to cultivate that internal policeman to organize. Indeed every person doing violence in the name of another, beyond just petty theft is doing so at the behest of that policeman in their own head. It is not imposed directly. It is accepted by them for whatever reason.

State power is the growth of largely this power. The creation of community relies on this power and the state as a gigantic imagined community represents the greatest innovation in the effective utilization of this power to its greatest extent. State power has become so natural that criminalization is effectively treated as a statement of morality. Though we cannot ever detect immorality waves when putting bodies in the town water supply, the illegality of something is treated as the same as an immorality particle given off with every body that is placed in that reservoir.

Morality and law and the state and the social order are such a tightly bound cluster of concepts that each one acts to re-enforce the other. The rule of law is an admission by the state that it sees application of the law as the most expedient means of using its own power. Through an appeal to non-arbitrary application of the rules of society and an appeal to justice it becomes much easier for the policeman in one’s own head to acquiesce. The greater the distance you have between the real fingers of the state the easier this façade is to uphold.

Of course, the law is far from the only means of exercising state power and lionizing the role of the rule of law is nothing more than a propaganda tactic. Law has left the building insofar as it ever was here in human history. Rules were made through custom and custom was given effect by law. Law is staffed by lawyers who are in themselves people with their own biases and decision-making. There is also no escape through appealing to the reverse to throw oneself into the pool of precedent and statutes and let yourself be carried by the current of history. To do so would be to forfeit legal decision-making to the biases of those who came before you. To rely on the text of a statute is to forfeit yourself to the biases of those who composed those words. Law is arbitrary it can only ever be arbitrary just as any other human system is. There is no justice particle given off when the judge reads an appropriately just sentence.

As justice is meaningless there is nothing but the assemblage of sounds conveyed through the air in rooms well lit filled with electricity from far off power plants, assembled by people to manipulate the forces of nature themselves, the sounds are made by flaps in the back of your mouth, air breathed into the room in line with pulsing electricity in your mind. It is all contingent and it always only was. All the law can do is appeal to consistency. This is what happened before and thus so on and so forth until we are not animated meat but merely a curious assemblage of calcium. Because consistency mirrors how we perceive the natural world. Seasons come and go the sun rises and sets. We pay no mind to the reality of why such things occur but merely the pattern and shape of them. They occur regularly enough ergo they will always occur and occur in ways that rhyme nicely with each other.

Law and justice are not linked. The charge that rule of law is not arbitrary is on the face of it incorrect. Law is subordinate to the social order at large. It imposes some rules yes on contracts, on law, it gives effect to things it allows individuals to use state power to achieve as they wish. Of course nobody is under any obligation to comply with the courts. It is through that policeman that they do either mental or through physical violence, yet every second you are not being cuffed and manhandled or being forced to move it is up to you.
State power is a powerful body that may tear lives apart by making any other option unconscionable and even through applying violence. It gives structure, but the more we feed the beast the stronger its muscles become and that musculature can rip us limb from limb. It diffuses social responsibility and harms us all collectively. The state is an abusive parent and the more power we give it, the younger we are by comparison. The more vulnerable the person the more the tendrils of the state wrap around us. Yet the state is such a natural existence that it is treated as an axiom by itself. So naturally has it legitimated itself that state power could be counted among the forces of gravity and electromagnetism as the defining aspects of material reality for a human being in the 21st century.

We nominally have control of the state through elections but do most people even acknowledge what is spat out by the state? They vote for the guy with the flashiest smile on the ad. The guy their friends are voting for. They vote to prop up their own identity, I am such and such a person, and as such and such a person I will vote for so and so, and so on. Or not vote at all in some cases. The individual identity of someone is far more defining as a feature for who they’ll vote for than anything else. That makes sense to someone too. In the good old days of tribes and such, the barbarous times those were, we knew our leaders and we were in a sense legislators within the tribe, but people rose to the top. No organization is in effect organization by those who wish to take it the most. Other people acquiesce to those others and so in voting we acquiesce to those who are seeking control. We submit to a leader through voting. This is the opposite to what we are told, rule for and by the people, our leaders should rule in trust for us. How can one individual or even a group of individuals even contend with the state? They cannot.

We submit to the state in the hopes that we will not be beaten by its belt, we hope that it will beat someone else with its belt and then share whatever spoils gained in the act. Sometimes people want to see others beat with a belt. The faceless gratuitous pain of watching someone else’s life burn by itself. Though such animals are in the minority. Most see life as zero sum, nothing can be gained without another losing. Voting can be tremendously effective in changing something but the disrupted line between voters and politicians effectively mean that even in a democracy there is miscommunication and missed opportunities. Once endowed with power politicians act however they choose and we submit to them we give them that power to do as they please we provide them the legitimacy and as such state action is more easily swallowed by us. We would not accept individuals acting under their own authority as the state does, and the meaningful difference is the kill chain which leads to us at the top. We are at the top logically all political decisions can be traced to us and we are responsible for it, but there is a gap between us and who we vote for. It is up to us to hold them to account and prevent their excesses but as politics is an expression of individual identity that ceases to count for anything.
