---
title: Public Law Mock
---

Question: Evaluate Dicey's View on Parliamentary Sovereignty.

A constitution is in essence a set of secondary rules, in line with HLA Hart, which govern how primary rules are made, unmade, interpreted and enforced. There is no single document where one could find a British Constitution as articulated by Andrew King, as such Dicey's statement which relates directly to the constitutional power of Parliament itself must be observed from the behaviour of Britain's constitutional actors. Parliamentary sovereignty has been asserted to exist in Section 38(1) of the EU Withdrawal Agreement Act says as such. It has been described as the "ultimate political fact," by HWR Wade, and upheld in the Millers. Yet it has also found itself increasingly under attack, with concerns around joining the EU, and as the executive grows ever mightier the notion that it is Parliament making the laws itself becomes more difficult to sustain. Parliament is also ever at the whim of the voting public who can themselves choose to disapply laws that they see unjust. Utlimately while in a black letter sense Dicey's statement is fundementally still true. Should the executive lose its majority then they have no lawmaking authority and Parliament may choose to remove any constraint. 

Clearly Parliament is still sovereign and still has the powers outlined by Dicey. Since the case of Proclaimations in 1610, lawmaking power clearly rests within Parliament. There is no ability to make primary legislation except through Parliament. Though immediately there is an exception here, orders in council have the effect of making primary legislation through the application of royal prerogative. However these orders are more limited, they are open to judicial review as shown in the GCHQ case. They are not the same as primary legislation and clearly in line with Proclaimations as referenced in Miller No.1 Parliament is still the sole lawmaking body as in line with Dicey's statement. There is no mechanism for law to apply to the UK but for an act of Parliament. Equally following the enrolled bill rule as demonstrated in the case of Pickin, only the words of a statute passed by Parliament will be endowed with the legal effect of law.

However were this the case then there would be nothing that needed to be 'taken back control,' of. The UK's relationship with the EU represents the most sustained attack on Dicey's statement. Within the Miller No.1 decision there was contention regarding the nature of EU law within the UK, the majority held that EU law became British law through the European Communities Act 1972 (ECA), however a minority articulated by Lord Reed took a different view, that through the ECA EU law was given legal mechanism to take effect in the UK, effectively allowing a foreign Parliament to legislate within the UK. This concern was raised prior to the UK joining the EU in a letter to Ted Heath commenting about the potential of the EU to degrade sovereignty in the UK in line with the Van Gend case. This threat would be held back initially in the Equal Pay case, however the Factortame case represents the first and only case of legislation that passed Parliament being disapplied by the courts in favour of EU legislation. This was legislation that was not passed in Parliament being prioritized over legislation that was passed in Parliament lending creedence to Lord Reed's argument. This case indicates that in line with Ivor Jennings' manner and form theory Parliament may choose to be bound by statutes that a prior Parliament passed or that another legislative body passed. Equally the case of Throburn set aside the doctrine of implied repeal. Therefore there is a strong case that membership in the EU qualified Parliamentary sovereignty contradicting Dicey. 

That being said, Parliament was only bound so long and so far as it chose to be bound. That it could and later did repeal the ECA demonstrates the ultimate power of Parliament in being the sole lawmaking body in line with Dicey. Equally the loss of implied repeal does little to meaningfully qualify Parliamentary sovereignty as explicit repeal is all that is necessary. Parliament has always had the extent of its power qualified by other states, it may choose to legislate to make smoking illegal on the streets of Paris but the fact that law does not take effect is not a meaningful qualification on Parliamentary sovereignty. That Parliament chooses to bind itself, to recognize other states and make its own analysis should come as no surprise. So long as there has been no action to prevent or circumvent Parliament making laws then it retains its status as the sole lawmaking body in line with Dicey.

However, in the act of leaving the EU the UK government gave great sway to ministers to use 'Henry VII,' powers to effectively legislate with Parliament's consent but using their own words. As such executive power could qualify Dicey's statement. The growth of skeleton bills and the increasing use of Statutory Instruments to furnish those bills qualifies Parliamentary sovereignty as although the power is conferred by Parliament it is excercised by the executive. In choosing the words of laws the executive effectively legislates. However this power can be qualified as the case which spurred the Strathclyde review, Parliament can reject SIs and has done so but only in 0.1% of cases. This could show that Dicey's statement does not reflect reality. However the executive is drawn from Parliament and from the party or parties with a majority. As such it is not unreasonable to expect that people from parties bound by common beliefs would follow the same policies. When Parliament and the executive disagree, the executive becomes untennable, either through confidence votes (1979) or rejecting SIs (2015) or even rejecting law, with Theresa May's Brexit deal rejected 3 times. The executive has no other means to make law. This shows that Dicey's statement may still be a reasonable reflection. Though few laws originate in Parliament, with almost all orginating as government policy, while there have been Private Members Bills, as a result of the government controlling the time table, and the majority through the whip system, it could be said that the legislative process is contingent on executive action. Parliament is not able to be spontaneous and as such the lawmaking process is a process of legitimating the government's agenda. However the executive's power in this domain flows through Parliament and again should they lose control of Parliament they have no other recourse to pass law. Even if the executive uses prerogatives to prerogue Parliament the courts ruled this was unlawful in Miller No.2. Though in Miller No.2 it was indicated that a long preroguation could be lawful if it was done for a reason and this question remains to be decided. However even without Parliament a rogue preroguing executive may not legislate. 

Ultimately, while the EU and executive power could be seen as means of qualifying Parliamentary sovereignty this is ultimately not the case for the purpose of Dicey's statement. Only Parliament can pass laws as demonstrated through Proclaimations, if the executive loses control then they cannot legislate. Equally Parliament may legislate to remove commitments like the EU at its will. 
