---
title: Judicial Review Introduction
---

Judicial Review, primary legislation may not be invalidated. Miller no. 2. Bromley LBC v. GLC, lower London transport fares using money from ratepayers throughout London. The Conservative Bromley council said that this action was unlawful, and they were successful in arguing that. 

Concerned with the legality and not the merits of a given decision. Belief that Judicial Review is necessary in order to maintain the Rule of Law. Separation of Powers also justifies Rule of Law. The Judiciary is checking government activities. Scruitinize how a minister made a decision. Fire Brigades case for example. The function of the executive makes decisions, Parliament legislates and judges merely review. 

In Miller no. 2 they found that the government was unlawful. Ultra vires justifies Parliamentary sovereignty through making sure that the executive is acting within the powers granted to it by Parliament. Four corners approach. 

See Christopher Forsyth. 

However some people say that Ultra Vires theory is problematic, JR is judge made resting on the rule of law. They ignore ouster clauses. It is not realistic to look at it as a Parliamentary Sovereignty restatement. They come from common law and not statute. There are problems with the rule of law. Concern discretion and non-statutory powers. 

Therefore Judicial Review is not an emanation of Parliamentary Sovereignty and a common law creature. See various thinkers. 

Red Light Theorists, look at Dicey and suspicion of the executive, Rule of Law is about restraining the state. Green Light theorists see law as a form of politics and it improves actions. 

The proceedure is usually left to professional law societies. However the civil proceedure sets out the proceedure that is necessary for Judicial Review, permission is required, this was leave. Pre-action protocol is also an element of this. 

Civil Proceedure Rules 54.1(2) and 54.4 requiring permission. 

Who can be reviewed? A public body or a body excercising public functions. That is necessary in the civil proceedure rules. Bodies that deliver a public service. Government ministers and stuff like that, core public. Schools and universities are difficult. Are they public or private, and how about utilities companies that used to be public but are now private. 

Review of public functions and public bodies. 

The subject matter, justiciability, it does not be statutory alone. GCHQ was the prerogative, national security is an exception. These are very controversial cases. The courts cannot decide political questions but they can state what the law is. 

Anisminic ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission [1969] 2 AC 147 talks about Ouster clauses. Involved the taking over of the Suez canal. What was going to happen with British companies with financial interests. 

Standing is another issue. S. 31(3) Senior Courts Act sufficient interest test. This is ultimately a pretty loose test. It extends beyond just the person with a particular interest. Public minded individual Gina Miller, Greenpeace. Different test than the S.7 HRA where you must be a victim specifically. 

Evans case demonstrated the weakness of standing.

S.31 SCA application for Judicial Review, they can have a prohibiting and quashing order or an injunction and you may also get damages. 

There are 5 grounds of JR

Proceedural Impropriety, Illegality, Irrationality/unreasonableness, and proportionality and HRA issues, the first three are the principal common law JR grounds. Mentioned by Lord Diplock GCHQ Case. 

A court might have a time limit. If they ignore the decision then what happens this has not really happened. The precedents however that develop can broaden the cases that can be brought with good consequences. 