---
title: Proceedural Impropriety
---

It can be failure to comply with a proceedure lined in statute. This is not that important. There are common law requirements. Requirements of Natural Justice with two limbs, the rule against bias, and the second is the right to be heard. 

R (Osborne) v. Parole Board -> The arguments for JR for proceedural impropriety. Legitimacy to avoid injustice. Fair processes are justified. Goes back to the rule of law justification. 

Ridge v. Baldwin [1964] AC 40 -> Case about the police officer who lost his job. The case established that these principles apply both in court cases or public bodies as well. Ridge v. Baldwin focuses on the right to be heard also. 

It is a rule of natural justice, no man should be the judge of his own case. It does not just be bias itself, but appearance or apparent bias. ex Parte McCarthy justice must be done but must be manifestly and undoubtedly be seen and done. 

Therer are some confusing distinctions between them. Automatic and non-automatic disqualification. Actual/Direct bias, appearance of bias, and apparent bias. Automatic disqualification there is no need to examine it, the mere fact that the relationship was not disclosed then that is enough to render the decision void. This is actual bias. Non-automatic there needs to be a test, a fair minded observer would have concluded that the decisionmaker was biased. You have got to get up and argue. 

Dimes v. Grand Junction Canal Proprieters [1852] 3 HL -> The judge involved in the case had shares in the grand junction canal case. The judge said that he had forgotten. Dimes that was enough to disqualify. 

R v. Bow Street Magistrate ex Parte Pinochet Ugarte no. 2 [2000] 1 AC -> A Spanish magistrate tried to pursue him. He was pursued. Pinochet was in London for medical treatment. There was an application for extradition. There is universal juresdiction for some human rights abuses as well. The convention on torture is one of those. Pinochet tried to claim state immunity. One of the judges in the House of Lords was a trustee of Amnesty international who were intervening in this case and they put in an argument in the case. This led to automatic disqualification. Pinochet was not extradited and on health grounds he was not prosecuted. 

Apparent bias is non automatic disqualification. 

Porter v. Magill 2 AC 357 -> What the fairminded observer would have thought. Porter test. 

Religious or cultural background bias Locabail v. Bayfield Properties, not valid for bias. 

Viewpoint Bias Helow v. SSHD [2008] UKHL 62 -> Not sufficient Scottish judge who dismissed an immigration appeal from a Palestinian Asylum seeker. 

Locabail said obiter that there is a danger if there is a personal friendship or acquaintahsip or amimosity between the judge and the person before them or anyone involved in that case. 

AWG Group ltd. & Anor v. Morrison & Anor [2006] EWCA civ 6 -> The justice was told that it was wrong to refuse to recluse himself when it was apparent he was acquainted with one of the witnesses in that case. Tennis club neighbour.

Prejudging/Predetermination -> You should not be pre deciced which is from Locabail case. 

Predisposition -> This is not enough to establish this. Therefore there is distinction. 

Localism Act enshrines rules to this end. 

El Faragy v. El Faragy [2007] EWCA Civ 1149 -> Court held a judge who had made several jokes about a Saudi SHeikh who was party to the proceedings ought to have reclused himself on the ground of apparent bias. There was a possibility that the judge would habe pre-judged in that case. 

Legitimate Expectations and Right to be heard

SSHD v. AF (no. 3) [2009] UKHL 28 -> 'Denunciation on grounds that are not disclosed is the stuff of nightmares,' Lord Hope. 

This is not as absolute as the Rule Against Bias, the precise requirements will differ based on the case. There are core requirements and optional extras. Under core requirements you have a right to hear the case against you as well as being able to argue yourself. Notice of the case against you and an opportunity to make out a case. 

Right to be heard. 

Ex Parte Doody -> This is something that concerns you personally. The core requirement is that they have a right to be notified and if this is not met then there might be a case. Doody had been convicted of a life sentence. While he was in prison his life sentence was increased without being notified, he had a right to know because deprivation of liberty.

R (Anufrijeva) v. Home Sec. UKHL 36 [2003] -> Right to be notified for an asylum seeker and until they are notified there is no ability to withdraw payments. 

Ridge v. Baldwin [1964] AC 40 -> Chief constable of police in South England, convicted of conspiracy to obstruct public justice but he was acquitted but then he lost his job without being notified and he was not able to make his defense. He wanted his pension. To get that then he wanted to know the case against him and an opportunity to make his case. This applies in all cases. Before this case then it was just in courts not in local authorities. 

Bank Mellat v. HM Treasury [2013] UKSC 39 -> Bank suspected in helping out the production of nuclear weapons in Iran and so sanctioned under terrorism act without knowing the decision and not given an opportunity to respond. 

Lloyd v. McMahon [1987] AC 62 -> Look at the nature of the case and the context. 

National Security can trump everything, GCHQ case. 

Oral hearing?

There is no right to an oral hearing and it is only sometimes. 

Osborne v. Parole Board -> Loss of their liberty so they made a case they should have these optional extras. He was out on parole. He was recalled early and wanted to know why. He said he needed an oral hearing and this appeal is upheld. 

Ex Parte Hook -> He had a license to trade but it was revoked for public urination. He did not get the chance to make oral representations. He was given a right to an oral hearing because he lost a right to trade for life. 

McInnes v. Onslaw-Fane -> Asks for an oral hearing and it is denied, he is applying for something that he doesn't yet have and he had applied 6 times but it was denied. The courts have made a dinstinction between having something and not having something. 

Cross examination?

R Osborne v. Parole Board -> This right because it involves loss of liberty gives a right to cross examination. 

However lesser matters as in Maxwell v. Department of Trade and Industry -> This will not entitle such a right. 

Legal Representation?

Essential in criminal trials if right to cross exmaine is granted then legal representation will be. 

Kulkarni v. Milton Keyenes Hospital NHS trust -> Doctor who lost his license and he was supposed to have legal representation because it was alleged he had touched his patients inapropriately because his liveleihood was at stake. 

Right to an appeal?

Not automatic

Does fairness require the possibility of appeal? Depends on that question.

Lord Denning MR explains in Ward v. Bradford Corporation at 35

Where fundemental rights are at stake then there is a right Porter v. Magill

Right to reasons?

No right to reason at common law but the court may impose a right in two sitatuions. Or in line with statute. 

If the decision is being challenged on other grounds of review than procedural imporpriety or in the case of Doody where fundemental rights are at stake. 

Legitimate Expectations

There are two kinds of legitimate expectations, procedural and substantive, something less than a right which may be protected by natural justice. Procedural and substantive legitimate expectations are two different things. 

Proceedural legitimate expectations where a decision maker as outlined a poarticular procedure and then failed to live up to then there is a legitimate expectation. 

Ex Parte Asif Mahmood Khan [1985] 1 All ER 40. Criteria for adopting overseas and Khan had followed all the elements of that but he was still denied and therefore he had a claim. 

R v. North East Devon Health Authority ex Parte Coughlan -> Case where a person in a nursing home was told that they would never have to be move again. Argued she had a substantive legitimate expectation and she was successful in her claim. 

A representation must be clear and unequivcal, Bancoult no. 2, can't conflict with statute ex parte begbie, and detrimental reliance isn't necessary bancoult no. 2 and endorused in Finucane. 

Cannot be made to the public at large R (Wheeler) v. Prime Minister

Can be frustrated, following GCHQ. 
