---
title: Unreasonableness/Irrationality
---

Last ground of JR. 

The third mentioned in GCHQ. This one is a bit different from the others becuase judges are kind of replacing the decision. 

What is irrationality/Unreasonableness?

Wednesbury case -> Big case about a cinema in 1948, they applied to a local council for a license to films on Sundays. The council says no. They say that this is irrational. They lose the case but it became fancy because MR says in his six page judgement he says that it wasn't for the courts to do this provided that they acted lawfully. It is only where a decision was made that no reasonable decisionmaker could have made. 

Low success rate

R v. SSHD ex p Brind JR is not an appeal

Lacks clarity

Degrees?

There is a pectrum of judicial scruitiny. Ex P Smith, gay soldiers case, anxious scruitiny. This sets a lower bar and it was based on human rights being degredated. 

Light touch reivew for matters of high policy. R (Peckham) v. SoS Transport -> HS2 case.

Standard Wednesbury review for everything else

R (D and another and Mayor of London) v. Parole Board and Another -> John Woiboys case for the London taxi driver. He was convicted and the court found that the parole board's decision was irrational because they only looked at the cases he was convicted of.

R (Rogers) v. Swindon NHS Primary Care Trust -> Drugs that cost a fortune and this policy was arbitrary and irrational for giving a drug and this was found. 

Contrasted with 

R (AC) v. Berkshire West Pimary Care Trust -> Gender reassignment surgery it was found to be reasonable. 

Bancoult it was not enough.

Proportionatliy?

1. The legislative objective is sufficiently important to justify limiting a fundemental right

2. The measures designed to meet the legislative objective are rationally connected to it

3. The means used to imipair the right or freedom are no more than is necessary to accomplish the objective 

R v. SSHD ex Parte Daly 2001 UKHL 26

Smith case was decided after the Human Rights and they were decided on proportionality relying on right to private life under the ECHR. The court looked more into the reasons and they said that the ban was too far and it is not necessary for the ends. 

For a while it was thought that proportionality would take over. 

Daly, Lord Hope endorsed proportionality. 

British Civilian Internees, proportionality and irrationality were converging. 

Keyu -> 2015 case concerning an inquiry into the conduct of British soldiers during the Malaysian emergency, it was held that it was not irrational and it was said that proportionality was not relevant. That is a decision for Parliament.

Irrationality is still with us. 