---
title: Human Rights Remedies (Declaration of Incompatibility)
---

What happens if you can establish a breach.

HRA gives effect to ECHR in domestic law, but not a bill of rights, it has absolute, limited and qualified rights. Rights can be qualified if they are prescribed by law and necessary, there is the four stage analysis.

Only victims, those who have been directly effected can bring a claim or in rare cases the next of kin if the victim is dead. 

Proportionality is important.

The court can give just and appropriate remedies. Damages are allowed, and this is different from judicial review. Damages awards however to tend to be very low. There's a lot of limitation in the act for damages. They can also issue an injunction or a 'quashing order,' which nullifies a decision. Most human rights litigations don't involve acts of Parliament, but executive actions. 

There are a small number of claims which may argue that the act of Parliament is incompatible with Human Rights. It was designed to preserve Parliamentary Sovereignty. Section 3 and 4 HRA 2000 deal with this tension. 

S. 3. Has a complicated operation mechanism. The claimant needs to show that the act of Parliament is incompatible with convention rights. S. 19 HRA 2000 also allows statements of compatibility when a bill is being passed. The minister can make a statement of compatibility which say that the bill is compatible with the rights and ECHR memorandums. S. 19(1)(b) previously inconcievable, statements that the law is being passed in spite of incompatibilities. 

High profile bills introduced where the sponsoring Minister didn't want to guarantee that the bill was assuring Parliament that the bill was compatible with convention rights, but they wanted Parliament to proceed with it anyways. This was carried foward to the Migration bill, Safety of Rwanda, and James Cleverly used S. 19(1)(b) we know this is in breach of human rights but we still want Parliament to approve this bill. 

Prior to this the last time this power was used was in the communications bill in 2003, the Minister couldn't make a S. 19 statement, that the political broadcasting ban might be in breach of the ECHR. There was a challenge in the Animal Defenders Case, that Parliament made this statement, then the House of Lords examined it favourably. 

The latest uses are 'we know it's incompatible, but we haven't really thought it through.' 

S. 3(1) Parliament may pass legislation that is incompatible. The courts will however read the legislation in such a way that it gives effect to convention rights. Strong interpretative obligation. Parliament if it disagrees can reinstate the incompatible statement. 

Principles have been developed in relation to S. 3, what is possible and what isn't possible. A judge cannot be a legislator. They cannot change a fundemental feature of the legislation. Ghaidan v. Godin Mendoza 2004 UKHL, Lord Nicholls. Go with the grain of the legislation. 

What is possible is doing linguistically strange things. Judges use S. 3 to update the statute and make them compatible, and prevent the rigamarole of passing a whole new act of Parliament. R v. A UKHL 25 2001, one of the most controversial cases, the respondent was due to be tried for Rape, he claimed that he had a sexual relationship with the victim consensually for weeks prior. S. 41 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999, however allows victims to not have to testify. The judge said that the victim could not be cross examined, or that her statements could be put into evidence. 

The CA, said that the statement was non-admissable on the basis of the act. UKHL said that looking at this statute that this could prevent an accused person from putting foward evidence that was crucial to his defense, and therefore it would be a declaration of incompatibility. So they used S. 3, and the test had to be whether the evidence was so relevant that it would endanger the trial and if it was that relevant then it had to be admitted. UKHL concluded that S. 41 might be contrary to Article 6. UKHL thought they were making a good use of S. 3. There was a lot of crticism. It undermined a prior law recently passed by Parliament and judges were acting contrarily to Parliament. 

Ghaidan v. Godin Mendoza -> Held as a good example of the use of S. 3, complainant had been in a happy relationship with their same sex partner, and their partner died, and they were not the tenant. S. 1 of the Rent Act 1977, said that only heterosexual partners could succeed tenancy. The UKHL said that there was no rational reason to distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual couples. Incompatible with Article 14 of the ECHR, non-discrimination. Therefore S. 3 HRA was used to interpret it in a way that was compatible. The social policy of extension of security of tenure was equally applicable to both heterosexual and homosexual couples. It would eluminate the incompatibility and serve the social goal. Gives immediate remedy. 

Over time S. 3 is seen as undermmining Parliamentary Sovereignty. Parliament does not have the time or the will to go back and change the law back. It also introduces uncertainty into the law. 

So in recent times S. 3 has been precluded from operating in some statutes.

In the Illegal Migration Act 2023, there was a section which said that S. 3 HRA does not apply to this act. It suspends part of the HRA in this later legislation. Demonstrating a victory of Parliamentary Sovereignty. This section has been repealed as of 2025.

The Safety of Rwanda (Asylum and Immigration) Act 2024. HRA Section 2. would not apply, to pay attention to prior ECtHR juresprudence, and also S. 3, as well as S. 6-9. This section of the Rwanda act has been repealed so they no longer operate. It was too hard to repeal the HRA and therefore it was done on a case by case basis. 

S. 3 is rarely utilized. Parliament is better at picking up Human Rights issues, and the current government is not that interested. It does work well in old laws. Gives effective remedies. 

S. 4 HRA

A compromise that was reached as a result of Parliamentary Sovereignty. People argued at the time that it would be good to give the court strike down laws. Disapply acts of Parliament. The compromise that was used was S. 4 and that gives what a declaration of incompatibility is. 

1. See if the incompatibility is found, it must be found to proceed. 
2. If it is incompatible then look at S. 3 and see if it can be made to interpret.
3. Then there is a declaration of incompatibility made. 

Only some courts, the High Court and above can make declaration of incompatiblity..

SoS for Business and Trade v. Mercer -> Miss Mercer who was employed by a health and social care charity, there was a dispute with a company over overnight shifts. Mercer was a member of Unison the trade union. She went on strike. The company suspended her as a result. She filed a complaint under the Trade Union Act, she was subjected to detriment when suspended. Done to penalize her for trade union activities. CA said that the activities did not extend to trade union participations. S. 3 could not be used to make it incompatible with Article 11 of the ECHR. UKSC decided use of S. 3 and S. 4, they said that the Trade Unions Act was not compatible. Step 1 done. Step 2, S. 3 or 4, they said that S. 146 could not be read and it would alter the act fundementally, the court would be making policy choices and would go against the fundemental goal of the legal scheme. Then Step 3, made a declaration of incompatibility under S. 4 of the HRA 2000. The courts may decide not to, it was a matter for Parliament to resolve. 

What happens next?

You can only wait.

There is a Henry VIII clause in the HRA that gives the Minister to proceed with changes to primary legislation to remove the incompatibility. Important to act quickly. S. 10(2), not compolsory however to act like this. It is for the government and Parliament to decide how to remedy. There is no way to compell action. S. 2 sets out that it is the affirmative resolution proceedure for SIs. 

Since Oct. 2000 63 Declarations of Incompatbility have been made. 46 have been addressed either by Primary Legislation, Remedial Order, other measures or have been overturned on appeal. 

17 are ongoing, 4 are open to appeal, 6 have been proposed to be resolved by remedial order, and 7 are 'under consideration.' 

Small number.

S. 4(2) Makes DoIs a discretionary power. R (Steinfeld) v. SoS for Int Dev UKSC 32. The court may excercise its power but may not. 

R (Nicklinson) v. MoJ UKSC 38 -> Litigation brought against the suicide act. Three claims here. Three people who wished to end their lives who were living in great pain. Argued Suicide Act was incompatible with Article 8 rights. 4 Judges said that it was inappropriate for the UKSC to consider the question of assisted suicide. 5 considered the question of compatibility. All of them agreed that this was in the margin of appreciation of the UK in the UKSC. They agreed that the Ullah criteria did not apply since there was no ECtHR juresprudence. 3 of them said that they should not make a DoI until Parliament has considered the issue themselves. The legislature was considering the issue. Give an indication and not firm words. 

Lady Hale and Lord Kerr had a different approach. DoI is not compatible and it is very week. They argued that. They said that it was incompatible. They didn't follow the other judges concerned with seperation of powers. 

NIHRC for JR UKSC 27 (2018) -> Case about prohibition of abortion in NI, and it was found that the Human Rights Commission did not have standing. Lady Hale said that when S. 4 was enacted said that Parliament got to decide, it could do nothing, it could pass a remedial order or pass an act of Parliament. 

Seperation of powers issues. 

Other arguments have emerged over time. The Court doesn't touch a failure to legislate or a hypothetical issue. They may give guidence like in Nicklinson or NIHRC. It is seen as a threat to Parliamentary sovereignty and a violation of Seperation of Powers. It is equivalent to a strike down power. The ECtHR has held that a Declaration of Incompatibility is not a good remedy. Article 13 is not incoprorated into the UK. ECtHR has said that this is not a good remedy. You don't need a DoI to make an application to the ECtHR. Only exhausting domestic appeals. Though it is going to take longer. The time taken to respond can be very very long. The longest wait was 14 years, prison voting. 10 years DNA database legislation. Not a swift remedy. 

How you respond depends on how you see it. It's the most effective remedy possible. 

If a breach is established then the court has three choices

1. They may apply S. 3 interpretation but if interpretation goes too far then you can only do S. 4 (R v. Nicklinson)
2. They may make a S. 4 DoI
3. They may do nothing (R v. Nicklinson also)