---
title: Human Rights
---

Hirst v. UK -> Claim about prisoner voting and a violation of Article 3 arguably. The court concluded that it was a disproportionate thing to ban all prisoners from voting. It became very controversial. Only remedied in 2017 where some prisoners were given a right to vote.

Al-Skeini v. UK -> Iraqi nationals argued that the UK armed forces had breached the right to life in Iraq. This was a difficult question. The UK said that there was extraterritorial effect, but the ECtHR said that the convention still applied and it led to a number of cases about the armed forces. 

Othman v. UK -> Extradition case, argued that his case in Georgia would be unjust because it would use evidence which was obtained via torture. Eventually an agreement was signed to get around it. 

Animal Defenders International v. UK -> Case about political advertizing and political parties being banned from advertizing on TV and radio. Those are banned. Long standing ban. The Grand Chamber said that this was within the margin of appreciation. 

Eweida v. UK -> The UK had to give remedies to allow people to manifest religious belief at work. 

Section 2 HRA -> The Ullah doctrine statutory basis, give effect to the ECtHR judgements. 

Ullah -> Lord Bingham Judgements of the ECtHR are not binding but they are almost always followed and said that it should be followed no more, but not less. In terms of how the ECtHR will be interpretted. 

Exceptions to Ullah Article 6 right to a fair trial where they said that the ECtHR is wrong.

Also where there is no juresprudence from ECtHR. Found in the Austin case.

Nicklinson case -> Margin of appreciation. Remember this case. 

R (Elan-Cane) v. SSHD -> Some flexibility and the judges should not go further than they are confident that the ECtHR would go. X marker on passports for gender, and the court said there was no positive obligation to allow this. 

ECtHR is a living instrument. It evolves in relation to scientific, social and legal developments. Rather than originalism. 

Goodwin v. UK 2002 -> Case about Gender reeassignment recognition.

Pretty v. UK 2002 -> End of life comes within Article 8. 

VICTIM STATUS

Section 6(1) and Section 7 Situations where you can rely on Human Rights, S.7 directly when a human rights issue arises in any legal proceeding, and S.6 in general.

Burden v. UK -> Definition of victim, directly effected person. Can extend to corporations. 

You need to satisfy victim status and there is no definition. However right to life indirect victim status you can bring a claim on their behalf. Test cases are not allowed. There must be an actual violation that has happened to you. 

Verein Klimaseniorinnen Schweiz v. Switzerland -> Case that develops victim status. Application by a climate change pressure group by senior women, and they argued that they needed climate action to give effect to their convention rights. Big case. Climate change it is possible everyone is effected, so there must be a particular severity of risk for that person, and they found that those women did not meet that threshold. Not sufficiently severely effected. However with regard to associations in a climate change context they may have victim status. In order for them to have standing they need to be lawfully established, able to demonstrate that they pursue a dedicated proceedure, and that it can demonstrate that it can be regarded as a genuinely qualified representative to act on behalf of its members. 

Narrower than sufficient interest for Judicial Review. Individuals can bring a claim if they are directly effected. 

Core public authorities cannot be victims. 

It is possible to be a potential victim if there is convincing evidence that a violation is likely to occur. 

Non-nationals and those living outside the UK. 

Equality and Human Righs Commission is empowered to bring claims under the HRA. The difficulty has been that the budget of it has been cut and there is a reluctance to use this. They brought one case over 'enhanced interrogation techniques,' they used to intervene but less so now.

Matter of an Application by the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission -> Key issue is that the NI HRC does not have the right to bring a case under the HRA. 

Very narrow test for victim status. 

Burden of human rights claims.

Section 6(1) Public authorities, including courts or tribunals and any person whos functions are of a public nature, but does not include the Houses of Parliament. However this does not apply where a public or hybrid body is acting in a private way.

Three types of body

Core public authorities

Hybrid authorities

Private bodies

Aston Cantlow [2003] -> Possession of special powers, democratic accountability, public funding in whole or in part an obligation to act only in the public interest, a statutory constitution, association with the process of either central or local government, statutory powers excerciseable against the general public or a class or group, surrender or delegation of state powers to it. The case about the farm with the rights to the church to take money to take money to repair the church, tried to rely on right to property but this was found to be a private matter. 

What is a public function?

YL [2007] UKHL 27 -> This case complicated everything what happened was YL was a resident of a care home run by a private company, her placement had arranged and been funded by the local council, with funding from the family, and the NHS, and there were allegations about the family during visits and so it was proposed to move her. There was a question of application did this apply to this private decision. HoL divided but held that this was not a public body, it was acting as a private body. 

Reversed by statute in the end. It is a public function now. 

They give a list of public function criteria that are similar to the Aston Cantlow ones. 

Acting in the public interest

Special powers

Democratic accountability

Statutory constitution

Public funding

Excercising statutory powers

Taking the place of government

Controlled by a core public authority

YL END

Tortoise Media brought a claim against the Conservative Party for the 2022 Leadership Election resulting in Liz Truss becoming PM. They brought a Human Rights Claim. The Party said that this was a private function, but it was argued that choosing the Prime Minister was a public function. CA held that electing a leader is private and not public even if it has public results. 

Private bodies. The HRA has no direct application. Indirect application, because courts have to interpret things to be in line with human rights in line with S.3.

Ghaidan [2004] 2 AC 557 -> Interpret legislation so that there was no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation even though both claimants were private. 

Absolute Rights

Limited Rights

Qualified Rights

Absolute rights are all about definitions so not a focus. 

Limited rights are not that important to this course as well. 

Qualified Rights are the focus. Right to Freedom of Expression Article 10

Defamation law, privacy law, public order, official secrets are all accepted qualifications in Article 10 and written directly into it. Almost always justified. Straightfoward and simple examples. 

First thing to be tested is prescribed by law. 

Simms [2000] -> Murderer serving a life sentence and sought a journalist in order to look into his case. The Home Secretary required a blanket order that there would be no professional official use of this work. Complete ban on interviews by journalists in prison to allow for discipline in prison. However the HoL said that it was assumed that fundemental rights are upheld and cannot be interpretted away. There is no clear or unambigious wording allowing such things. 

Gallagher [2019] -> Sufficiently accessible and precise. To regulate conduct accordingly. People need to understand what this is about. 

Test of prescribed by law

1. Basis in domestic law

2. Sufficiently accessible and precise

3. Protection against arbitrariness 

Absolute requirement. A breach of guidelines is sufficient to indicate the interference is not prescribed by law. The decision must also be made by whom the power is conferred.

Shahid [2015] UKSC 58 -> A prisoner who was placed in segregation to protect him from other prisoners and this went on for 5 years. This had a number of elements. Pursued this aim of keeping him safe, however there were times where there was no authorization. Power had to be excercised by the person on whom the power was conferred. 

Purdy [2009] -> Woman suffered from MS, and she wanted to be able to end her life. No policy on when the CPS will not bring a claim. Not publishing this policy breached the sufficiently accessible and precise issue. It did engage Article 8. They concluded that the CPS was not in compliance with accessibility and foreseeability. Therefore guidence must be clairified. 

R v. ABJ [2026] -> Definition of terrorism. 

Protection against arbitrariness, there is not wide discretion given to the decisionmaker to do whatever they want. The law is too broad. 

Gallagher [2019] -> People who had one or more police reprimands. It was found that the discretion on disclosure is way too wide and it ends up becoming arbitrary, and police are given a very wide remit. The law must not confer a discretion so broad. However as long as they are clearly laid out for mandatory. 

Roberts [2015] -> Stop and search. The police in a certain area had stop and search with no reasonable suspicion so they requested to stop and search a woman on a bus, she said no. The court agreed that there was a risk that it may be used in an arbitrary way but the benefits to the public meant that it was good enough. There are also other constraints on the power. 

Beghal v. UK [2019] -> Stop and search at an airport. The ECtHR found that the stop and search power was too arbitrary and too broad and the safeguards were insufficient. 

Necessity and Proportionality

Necessary in a democratic society (interests of national security) Official Secrets Act 1989 various other necessary things.

Very little focus on this in case law. Not really questioned. The state has to give reasons and that is a big development. Restriction must be proportionate to a legitimate aim that is being pursued. 

Bank Mellat [2013] -> Proportionality test, whether the objective of the measure is sufficiently important to justify the limitation of a protected right, whether the measure is rationally connected to the objective, whether a less intrusive measure could have been used without unacceptably compromising the achivement of the objective and whether balancing the severity of the measure's effects on the rights of the persons to whom it applies against the importance of the objective, to the extent that the measure will contribute to its achievement, the former outweighs the latter. 

Irrationality isn't used for ECtHR instead proportionality. 

Huang v. SSHD [2007] -> Asylum case reviewing HS immigration decision, proportionality is more precise than the standard review but it does not make the judge the decisionnmaker. It is not a merit review.

Ammori v. SSHD -> Palestine Action case. Unsuccessful based on JR, however breach of her own policy to only prescribe when it is proportional to do so, so the broad ultra vires argument was successful. 

University of Cambridge v. Persons Unknown -> Israel Palestine campers blocking parts of the campus during the protests. Human Rights has come up in that case as a result. 

Shvidler v. Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Affairs -> Former Soviet citizen and associate of Roman Abramovic. Looked through proportionality. They said that the court makes its own assessment, if disproportionate then not compatible with Human Rights legislation. 

Section 8 Powers of the HRA which when it finds something is illegal, they can find damages, declaration of the legal postiion, an injunction or a quashing order. 

In a SMALL number of claims then some claims can be made against an act of Parliament. Section 3 interpretation, and Section 4 declaration of incompatibility. Compatibility is important, it is only where a right is found incompatible then Section 3 and 4 will be used. 

Section 19 also exists and allows a statement of compatibility. Saying that the bill is given and analyzed it for convention rights. Section 19(1)(b) allows for a bill to be passed despite it violating human rights. However S.19 statements started to change. 

Rwanda bill -> Introduced without a Section 19 statement. Made a statement under S.19(1)(b) where there are incompatibilities but anyway it did not matter. 

Animal defenders litigation it came with a S.19 use, where the minister said that she could not make a statement, and it was very honest in doing that. The fact that the statement had been made it made an impact on the decision that was brought. The government had acted carefully. 

Section 3(1) -> Try to interpret the act in line with convention rights. So far as it is possible to do so. 

Ghadian Case -> Relevant to S.3

However contrasted with:

R v. A -> Very controversial, where a rape trial where he alleged that there was consensual sex rather than rape. Applied for leave to cross examine about this sexual relationship, however the Youth Justice Act prohibits cross examination of such things. The HoL said that the act had to be interpretted in line with a right to a fair trial in the HRA. They found that it was incompatible. 

Illegal Migration Act 2023 -> Said that Section 3 of the HRA does not apply in relation to this act. 

Safety of Rwanda Act 2024 -> Section 2, 3 and 6-9 were suspended by that act. However this has been repealed. 

Section 4 is not a strike down power, but it allows a declaration of incompatibility. 

SoS for Business and Trade v. Mercer [2024] -> S. 3 or DOI, on the interpretation of the disciplinary proceedures for her having undertaken actions in line with a trade union. They said that the law did not offer her any protection. The CA held that the activities did not go to the level that the right to join and participate in a trade union was not protected. SC said that the act was not compatible as it did not protect trade union members participating in trade union activity. It could not be interpreted as it would be judicial legislation and it would alter the scope of rights conferred by the act. Far reaching ramifications and the grain of the legislation. 

Henry VIII clauses that are included within the HRA which allows ministers to introduce amendments but it is not compolsory. It is for the government to do what it wants. 

Of sixty-three declarations made forty-six have been addressed -> Responding to Human Rights Judgements 2024-2025 MoJ Policy Paper Annex A. 17 ongoing, 4 are open to appeal, 6 are proposed to address by remedial order and 7 are under consideration. 

HRA is a discretionary power. R. (Steinfeld) v. SoS for IntDev

Nicklinson case is also a good judgement for this. 

Lady Hale gives an explaination that S.4 should not be left to Parliament. Parliamentary Sovereignty is still respected by the fact that Parliament can decide to do nothing which respects that. 