---
title: Judicial Review Illegality
---

One of the three major grounds of review and therefore one of the most confusing cases. Simple/Narrow Vires, Broad Vires, Abandonment of Discretion, and Abuse of Discretion. The argument is that a public body simply just acted illegally. 

The decisionmaker must underestand correctly the law that regulates his decision making power and give effect to it. Lord Diplock GCHQ

Where does the power originate is the first concern. What is the content, purpose and scope? Lack/absence of power to act, substantive or implied. Parliament's intention crucial, what powers did Parliament actually confer. 

They did not have the power to do what they did. Narrow Vires. 

Fewings 1995 3 All ER 20. A local government authority prohibited hunting stags on the land the council had, the statute was related to acquisition but they did not actually have that power in statute, so the court said that the particular statutory power they were relying on did not allow them to act as they did. 

Hazell v. Hammersmith and Fulham LBC [1992] AC 1. A slightly more complicated case. The council engaged in interest swap agreements. The legal power they relied on was for borrowing and not debt management. So they did not have the power to do what they were trying to do. 

There is leeway for interpretation. 

Broad vires is misuse of power. They have the power but they did not use it appropriately. 

Look at power and where the power originates. Most public decision powers are in statute but some are common law. You examine the four corners of the statutes, if they acted outside then they were acting illegally. There are explicit limitations. Those are easy to identify. Look at the ordinary English meaning of the words of the statute. 

Pepper v. Hart [1993] AC 593. You cannot look behind a statute but you can use the Hansard to understand the statute. Find out if a decisionmaker went beyond their powers. 

There are also implicit limitations. 

Principle of legality, laws are supposed to uphold peoples rights. Simms [2000] 2 AC 115. Sound economic management, Bromley LBC v. GLC [1983] 1 AC 768. That was the implicit limitation on the statutory power that was argued successfully and found in that case by the House of Lords. Talked about running a loss. 

Errors of law and interpretation. Anisminic [1969] 2 AC 147, the power exists but the public body has misused it. There was a British company that owned millions of pounds of assets in Egypt that were repossessed, they want compensation and in contradiction of the law despite an ouster clause. 

Acting in Breach of HRA S.6

Error of fact can also be analyzed. E v. SoSHD [2004] EWCA Civ 49. Illegality and misinterpretation of the law. 

Abandonment of Discretion

A lot of decisions are discretionary. Abandonment means that the power is not even used in the first place. 

Improper Delegation I

A discretionary power may not be delegated even further. 

Barnard v. National Dock Labour Board [1953] 2 QB 18. The body responsible for the ports and managing them, delegated powers further than they were supposed to. 

Caltona Doctrine emerges from Caltona ltd. v. Commissiners of Works, if a power is delegated to a minister they may be delegated to a civil servant but the minister is still responsible. 

British Oxygen co. v. Minister of Technology [1977] AC 610. Fettering discretion. Policies to guide discretion are allowed but cannot be completely closed to any exceptions. The case where there were these gas bottles that cost a little bit under the discretionary policy for these cylanders that were below the limit. Argued that the board of trade that they could not claim. The court says that you can have a general policy but you must be willing to depart from it in some cases. You should not close your mind. Fettering discretion. 

Abuse of Discretion

Four corners approach. Explicit limitations, found in the Hansard, explainatory notes, and ordinary meaning. Implicit limitations, principle of legality, they cannot implicitly remove rights, and socio-economic considerations following Bromley. 

Padfield v. Ministry for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food [1968] AC 997

Where a power is excercised but it is done so incorrectly there are two ways this is done. Imporper puprose. Padfield the milk board case. There was a policy to uniformalize the price of milk. There were price controls to that end. Disputes must be referred to the committee if the minister directs. They applied for a mandate to force the minister to do this. The courts decided that the minister should have referred the issue to committee. It was not absolute discretion. The power must be used for a purpose. They must have conferred the power to be in line with the purpose of the act and the policy that it furthers. What is the purpose of this statute. 

The reasons that the minister gave was that it was politically embarrassing. That was considered to be an imporper purpose so the Judicial Review action succeeded. He referred this dispute to the committee and they said there was a dispute but the minister just ignored the committee as he could. The court found that there were limits on the act and the way the decision is made. The court cannot act for improper purpose. 

How do you determine the purpose of an act of Parliament? In Padfield you have to look at the objectives of the act. You can look at the long title, explainatory notes. Pepper v. Hart you can use the Hansard for what the purpose is. 

Irrelevant Considerations. This is where a decisionmaker has taken something into account which is not relevant to the decision being made. All these things do run into each other. Wednesbury quote. 

Go through it in a logical way, house to house. 

Mandatory considerations, have due regard, example the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 they must be taken into account. Permissable considerations are things that may be taken into account but need not be. Irrelevant considerations are where a decisionmaker has taken something into account which is neither mandatory nor permissable and it must be substantive and material in order to be overruled. 

Roberts v. Hopwood [1925] AC 578. They decided to implement equal pay for mena nd women. It was argued that the council had taken into account irrelevant considerations of socialistic philanthropy. The pay was excessive. 

Thompson v. Venables [1998] AC 407 the Bulger case. Very horrible case with a press circus around it. 

Wheller v. LCC [1985] AC 1054. Leicester had banned a Rugby Club from using their recreation grounds because some of the players had gone on a tour of South Africa during Apartheid. A lot of criticism of this. They argued that they were promoting a duty to promote good race relations act 1976, but the judges said that they were just doing it under moral judgement and not their statutory judgement. 

There is overlap between improper purpose and irrelevant consideration. 

Irreelvant considerations are hard to distinguish. 

Porter v. Magill [2001] UKHL 67. Conservative Council homes for votes scandal. Following the local elections where the conservatives had an electoral majority, they wanted to increase their vote share by selling council homes. The thinking is that if they sold them off through right to buy they would be more likely to be bought by middle class people. Was this lawful? The court struggled with this. The auditor and three judges at first instance said that it was unlawful because it was to confer political advantage. The House of Lords said it was unlawful because it was purely done to confer political advantage rather than just incidentally conferring electoral advantage. Improper purpose. 

One example of Improper Purpose is intentional deviation from the policy and done in bad faith. That is where the line goes. Something is done correctly but in bad faith vs. taking something completely irrelevant into consideration. 