---
title: Human Rights 16/03/26
---

Convention rights. 

Absolute rights, limited rights and qualified rights. There is little to be worried about with absolute rights and limited rights because they arise in very select circumstances with the emphasis being on definitions. The focus is on qualified rights. 

Particularly freedom of expression is qualified. The first paragraph confers the right and the second paragraph qualifies them. As necessary in a democratic society. Long list of reasons. They can be taken away for any reason whatsoever. Freedom of Expression is Article 10 ECHR. 

Defamation law and privacy are both examples of law that are contingent on the qualifications in Article 10. Public order laws, and official secrets are all restrictions on free expression that are generally always justified. A lot of case law on these principles. 

First test: Prescribed by law. This is linked to the rule of law. It needs to have a legal basis. This arose in the common law case of Simms. Simms wanted to maintain his innocence and had a journalist visit him to discuss a possible appeal. The Home Secretary got annoyed and made the press sign that they could not use anything in interviews in an official capacity. They sued and the Home Secretary claimed this was derived from secondary legislation, the prison order. The House of Lords said that the policy went against freedom of expression in common law. No clear or unambigious wording in the order that allowed such an action. 

1. Basis in domestic law
2. Sufficiently accessible and precise
3. Protection against arbitrariness

Point to the law that gives the power to circumscribe the right. This is an absolute requirement. 

Shahid -> Case where a prisoner was segregated from other prisoners for their own protection, and this went on for 5 years and so there was legal action taken. The Supreme Court said that there were periods within the 5 years where this segregation was not authorized by law. The power must be eexercised by the body to which the power was conferred. 

Next it must be sufficiently accessible and precise. If you are going to limit rights people need to understand what is going on. There are cases on this. 

Purdey -> Case where a woman suffered MS and did not have any kind of cure. She wanted to die but she was too weak to do it herself so she needed assistence and wanted to travel to do assisted suicide. She was concerned that her husband if he assisted her he would be prosecuted. The DPP didn't say that if they were or weren't going to bring a prosecution should this happen. Purdey said that the refusal to publish the policy they abrogated the policy of sufficiently accessible and precise laws. Was the policy sufficiently precise. They concluded that they didn't comply with these duties. HoL held they were under a duty to clarify. 

R v. ABJ -> Definition of terrorism being precise. Research this more. 

The last criteria is protection against arbitrariness. The most difficult to understand. 

There is no wide and indefinate discretion. That in itself is a huge problem. The law is too broad

Gallagher 2019 -> Case where there were people with multiple criminal convictions. They believed that their convictions had been spent and they didn't need to disclose them, but the law said that there were exceptions for that where they had to be disclosed. They concerned the gravity of the offence and the age of the offender and the number of years that had passed. The argument was that this was arbitrary and too wide and not foreseeable. Too vague and general. They needed precision and forseeability. It was argued against it that there were clear categories. The Supreme Court says that because they are exactly and precisely defined, while they aren't necessarily relevant to the employer, that wasn't enough to deprive the government from being able to pursue that. Very wide power of discretion. 

Roberts 2015 -> Stop and search. The police don't need to have reasonable suspicion. There had been a number of gang related incidents in 2010 in Harringay and so the police issued an authorization for stop and search in that area for that time. This raises questions about giving police too much discretion. This case was brought because a woman with disabilities was on a bus, who didn't buy a ticket said she had no ID falsely and gave a false name. She was holding her bag strangely, the police feared a weapon and started a search. She refused, they forced. Stop and search was being used beyond the intended remit, and so a claim was brought. The supreme court examined. They said that there was a risk that if they didn't need reasonable suspicion then there was a risk, however there were benefits to the public, deterent effect. If the purpose is to reduce serious violence then there are benefits. The police had to demonstrate the constraints that existed. 

The Court in Strasbourg takes a different view HOWEVER! 

Beghal v. UK -> Another stop and search case. Similar facts, detained under suspected terrorism for a long period. The Court examined this and thought that the interference was not described in law, the safeguards were insufficient and it was arbitrary. 

NEXT ELEMENT NECESSITY AND PROPORTIONALITY

Article 10

If the state is going to interfere with freedom of expression then it needs to demonstrate necessity.

What does necessity mean?

There is not a lot of focus on it. There is more of a focus now (RESEARCH THIS)

The state needs to give RELEVANT and SUFFICIENT reasons for their actions and reasons for a restriction. It may corespond to rights conferred in the article. This restriction must also be PROPORTIONATE to a LEGITIMATE aim. Popularity is not a legitimate aim. 

Test of proportionality under the Human Rights Act. 

Bank Mellat decided in 2013 -> Bank that did business with Iran and the concerns about Iran's nuclear weapons. Claim against the treasury which imposed restrictions on this bank. All people in the financial relationships with the Iranian bank Bank Mellat. The bank was held to be participating in this. 2009 Secondary legislation was the power used. There was a claim here on a lot of grounds. There was an argument that the order was disproportionate to the risks to the UK. The Supreme Court agreed and had to clarify proportionality. It was a real mess. Four element test. 

Bank Mellat test!

1. Is the measure important?
2. Is the measure connected to the objective?
3. Is the measure the least intrusive one that could have been used to the intended end?
4. Is the measure balanced between the objective and the people who are affected by it?

The treasury in this case did have a very wide margin of appreciation. It also was linked to Iranian weapons. However! Why just this bank and not other banks that do business in Iran. They found the order irrational and disproportionate. 

Human Rights Act ban on political party broadcasting, this is a abrogation of Article 10, and so to see if it is proportionate you apply the Bank Mellat test. The interference was found proportionate in the example of the ban on party political broadcasting. 

There has been discussions about issues with separation of powers because the judiciary may be stepping on executive power!

Things became complicated. 

Huang v. SSHD -> Chinese national who came on a 6 month visitor visa, and then tried to apply for Indefinate Leave to Remain to be with his daughter who was living in the UK. It was a review on the SoSHD's decision to reject the application. Argument that it was an Article 8 violation because joining family. Question of porportionality and the balancing process. The treading in the executive element was difficult here. So the argument was the court should only be looking at the merits of the application. Very political decision. They were clear that the UK needed to be compatible with the convention and everyone had to do so, every public body. The tribunal had to decide if there was a breach of human rights and not just the merits of the application. They need to give weight to the decision maker and the person affected. The court does the balancing process. There has been a lot of legislation to try and get rid of court's role in immigration since this case. 

Irrationality and Proportionality difference. 

Smith 1996 -> No homosexuality in the army law was brought under review. A claim was brought and the only judicial review claim was Wednesbury irrationality. However the court found that it could not be found that it was irrational since professional and houses of parliament were in favour. Irrationality is a high threshold. The limits of irrationality and it was not able to challenge the policy. 

They went to Strasbourg and they applied proportionality and not irrationality. Enormous difference between the two. 

Proportionality is a much more rigorous analysis. Where is the analysis of the merits given by the state. Astonished that the UK was trying to defend this policy. They found a violation. The same facts with two tests to demonstrate the two differences. 

Ammori v. SoSHD -> Decision to prescribe the group Palestine Action. The Home Secretary said that the group had taken illegal actions against state bodies. The Home Secretary can act against terrorism which is defined under the act that was there. There were a lot of different claims. Combining JR and HR. The Home Sec acted unlawfully since no representation proceedural fairness. They failed to see relevant considerations. The policy expanded the law beyond what was defined. Human Rights claims breach of article 10, discrimination and freedom of assembly also needlessly abrogated. Question of representations High Court said there was no fairness obligation given the circumstances and SoS HD could do as they wished. The next part relevant considerations was also found not to be in breach. However the High Court said that they had gone beyond the powers of the act. 

The Human Rights Act claims. High Court pointed out that the consequences of prescription are very very significant. Not possible to be a member of the organization. Applies to anyone. Most serious interference. Very serious Article 10 interference. Proportionality at issue here. Need extremely good reasons. 

Home Sec lost here because the interference was not prescribed by law. They did consider proportionality. Looked at the importance of the objective. They accepted the legitimate aims. Referring back to Bank Mellat. Rational connection between the measure and the ends. Was there a less intrusive option? Possibly an injunction but injunctions are difficult because of the wide ranging activities. Proportionality however that was a very serious interference that needed a serious justification. It was disproportionate and criminal law can be used to prosecute the members who acted to do terrorism. It had not reached the level and scale of terrorism to justify prescription. 

University of Cambridge v. Persons Unknown -> Injunctions for a protest involved in Israel/Palestine to interrupt graduation proceedures. Human Rights has come up here because Article 10 free speech, and also free association. Held to be proportionate and in pursuit of a legitimate aim. Universities trying to secure it's spaces are allowed. So an injunction is fair. 

Shvidler v. SoS FCO -> Proportionality progression Schhvidler a former Soviet citizen and an associate of Roman Abramovich and there was sanctioning of him based on business association with a sanctioned man. Criminal offence to deal with you subject to exceptions. He brought a human rights claim. Article 1 sanctions, enjoyment of possessions. Private life claim also. Supreme Court decided. 1 Dissent. They went through what proportionality means. They said that the court assess it themselves. The Court decides proportionality. The court is not the decisionmaker. They just look if the convention right has been breached by a lack of proportionality. They look at the primary decisionmaker also. Did the decisionmaker have regard to all relevant circumstances. Wide margin of appreciation. The facts vary widely. Here it concluded that the sanctions were proportionate and lawful. 